Kickstarting Deep Reinforcement Learning
Simon Schmitt * 1 Jonathan J. Hudson * 1 Augustin Zidek * 1
Simon Osindero 1 Carl Doersch 1 Wojciech M. Czarnecki 1 Joel Z. Leibo 1 Heinrich Kuttler 1
Andrew Zisserman 1 Karen Simonyan 1 S. M. Ali Eslami 1
Abstract
We present a method for using previously-trained
‘teacher’ agents to kickstart the training of a
new ‘student’ agent.
To this end, we lever-
age ideas from policy distillation (Rusu et al.,
2015; Parisotto et al., 2015) and population based
training (Jaderberg et al., 2017).
Our method
places no constraints on the architecture of the
teacher or student agents, and it regulates itself
to allow the students to surpass their teachers in
performance.
We show that, on a challenging
and computationally-intensive multi-task bench-
mark (Beattie et al., 2016), kickstarted training
improves the data efﬁciency of new agents, mak-
ing it signiﬁcantly easier to iterate on their de-
sign. We also show that the same kickstarting
pipeline can allow a single student agent to lever-
age multiple ‘expert’ teachers which specialise
on individual tasks. In this setting kickstarting
yields surprisingly large gains, with the kick-
started agent matching the performance of an
agent trained from scratch in almost 10× fewer
steps, and surpassing its ﬁnal performance by
42%.
Kickstarting is conceptually simple and
can easily be incorporated into reinforcement
learning experiments.
1. Introduction
Learning from teachers is a hallmark of human develop-
ment, partly since gathering experience in the environ-
ment is time-consuming and bears signiﬁcant risks (Hen-
rich, 2015). In recent artiﬁcial intelligence research, ever-
increasing task complexity is raising the cost of learning;
with modern agents requiring up to billions of environment
steps to achieve competitive performance from scratch (Es-
peholt et al., 2018). Therefore, there is great interest in
*Equal contribution
1DeepMind, London, UK. Correspon-
dence to: Simon Schmitt <suschmitt@google.com>.
considering how agents might effectively learn from other
agents, using them as teachers.
Despite the prevalence of weight transfer in supervised
deep learning, such as pre-training networks on Ima-
geNet (Girshick et al., 2014; Oquab et al., 2014), there
has been limited success in leveraging previously trained
agents in the reinforcement learning (RL) setting. In this
paper we advocate a new approach, kickstarting, where the
explicit goal is to train new ‘student’ agents rapidly when
in the presence of previously trained ‘teacher’ agents. In
essence, the kickstarted student agent asks: “What would
my teacher do if it were in my shoes?”, and is encouraged to
act in a similar manner. This differs from imitation learn-
ing (Argall et al., 2009) where an agent learns from the
recorded experiences of an expert, not the expert itself.
We combine ideas from policy distillation (Rusu et al.,
2015) and population based training (Jaderberg et al.,
2017), yielding a method that is conceptually simple and
can easily be incorporated into reinforcement learning ex-
periments. Our method does not prescribe any architectural
constraints on the student or teacher agents. Unlike in stan-
dard distillation, the framework automatically adjusts the
inﬂuence of the teachers on the student agents, allowing the
students to rapidly surpass their teachers in performance.
We present the following results, using the IMPALA
agent (Espeholt et al., 2018), and experimental evaluation
on the DMLab-30 task suite (Beattie et al., 2016): (i) We
show that by kickstarting with a single teacher agent, we
achieve up to 1.5× speedup over training a state-of-the-art
agent from scratch on a challenging multi-task benchmark.
(ii) We show that the student agent can rapidly outperform
its teacher. (iii) We show that by kickstarting with multiple,
task-speciﬁc expert teacher agents, we realise signiﬁcant
gains, with the kickstarted agent matching the performance
of an agent trained from scratch in 9.58× fewer steps, and
surpassing its ﬁnal performance by 42.2%. Taken together,
our experiments demonstrate conclusively that kickstarting
can signiﬁcantly speed up the pace of research.
arXiv:1803.03835v1  [cs.LG]  10 Mar 2018

Kickstarting Deep Reinforcement Learning
Teacher
Expert at Task 1
Teacher
Expert at Task 2
Teacher
Expert at Task 3
Policy
Policy
Policy
Task 
1
Student
All Tasks
Policy
Task 
2
Task 
3
Knowledge Transfer
Student’s Actions
Teacher
All Tasks
Policy
Task 
1
Student
All Tasks
Policy
Task 
2
Task 
3
Knowledge Transfer
Student’s Actions
b
c
Task 
1
Agent
All Tasks
Policy
Task 
2
Task 
3
Actions
a
Observations
Student’s
Observations
Student’s
Observations
Student’s Rewards
Rewards
Student’s Rewards
Figure 1. Overview. Schematics of the three agent training scenarios explored in this paper. a: Standard multi-task RL. An agent learns
to perform well on several tasks by acting on and observing all of them. b: Single-teacher kickstarting (section 5.1). Observations
from all tasks are also fed to a ﬁxed, previously-trained teacher, and knowledge is transferred from teacher to student by encouraging
the student to match the teacher’s actions. c: Multiple-teacher kickstarting (section 5.2). For each task, observations are sent to a
task-speciﬁc expert teacher; the student is encouraged to match this teacher’s actions on the task.
2. Kickstarting RL Agents
We consider the reinforcement learning setting where pre-
trained agents are readily available, which is often the case
in practice (e.g. such agents could be previous versions of
the agent solving the same task, or ‘expert’ agents spe-
cialising in sub-tasks).
We wish to train a new student
agent with an arbitrary architecture in a way that both op-
timises the usual RL objective (i.e. expected return) and at
the same time makes use of the pre-trained teacher agent
in a way that leads to faster training and/or higher rewards.
To address these desiderata, we propose a framework called
kickstarting, depicted in Figure 1.
The main idea is to employ an auxiliary loss function which
encourages the student policy to be close to the teacher pol-
icy on the trajectories sampled by the student. Importantly,
the weight of this loss in the overall learning objective is al-
lowed to change over time, so that the student can gradually
focus more on maximising rewards it receives from the en-
vironment, potentially surpassing the teacher (which might
indeed have an architecture with less learning capacity).
In multi-task problems, it is also straightforward to ex-
tend this approach to the case of multiple teachers, each
of which is an expert on a particular task: in this case the
student will learn from an appropriate teacher on each task
using an analogous formulation.
2.1. Knowledge Transfer
The core of kickstarting is a knowledge transfer mechanism
which allows a student network to exploit access to (possi-
bly multiple) expert teachers. One of the well known ap-
proaches to this problem is policy distillation (Rusu et al.,
2015) which deﬁnes it as a supervised learning problem.
Namely, a teacher policy πT is used to generate trajecto-
ries x, each containing a sequence of states (xt)t≥0, over
which one tries to match student’s policy πS, parameterised
by ω, to πT . The corresponding loss function term for each
sequence s and each time step t is:
ldistill(ω, x, t) = H(πT (a|xt)∥πS(a|xt, ω)),
(1)
where H(·∥·) is the cross-entropy.
Unlike in policy distillation, we do not wish for the student
agent to merely replicate the behaviour of the teacher, but
rather to maximise its own future rewards; teacher policies
should only be proxies, helping to achieve this goal.
We begin with a standard RL objective (Sutton & Barto,
1998) of maximising the expected return EπS [R] over
trajectories generated by the student agent; the return is
deﬁned as a sum of future discounted rewards:
R =
P
t≥0 γtrt, where γ ∈[0, 1) is the discount factor, rt is
the reward received at time t, and at ∼πS is the action
sampled from the student policy. We consider policy-based
model-free RL methods which optimise EπS [R] by gradi-
ent ascent w.r.t. ω using some estimate of the policy gradi-
ent. This is usually represented as a loss ℓRL(ω, x, t) over
a trajectory x sampled from some behaviour policy.
Kickstarting adds to the above loss a term which is the
cross-entropy between the teacher and student policies,
weighted at optimisation iteration k by the scaling λk ≥0:
lk
kick(ω, x, t) = ℓRL(ω, x, t)+λkH(πT (a|xt)∥πS(a|xt, ω)),
(2)
where x is a trajectory generated by following the student
policy πS. Introduction of λk allows an agent to initially
focus on the supervision provided by the teacher. This en-
sures a dense learning signal, and does not have to be fully

Kickstarting Deep Reinforcement Learning
aligned with the RL objective. Then through adaptation of
λk during the course of learning, the agent is able to shift its
optimization focus on the (potentially sparse) reward sig-
nal rt, similar to how continuation methods relax optimisa-
tion problems to make ﬁnding the solution easier (Gulcehre
et al., 2016; Mobahi, 2016).
The kickstarting loss is closely related to policy distillation
(as there is a knowledge transfer from teacher to student),
but it differs in a few key aspects from (1) deﬁned in (Rusu
et al., 2015):
• The student is solely responsible for generating trajec-
tories, and can explore parts of the state space that the
teacher does not visit. We note that student trajecto-
ries have also been used for distillation in (Parisotto
et al., 2015) which is otherwise similar to (Rusu et al.,
2015) and still does not incorporate the RL objective.
• The knowledge transfer process changes over time
due to λk. In particular, after a certain number of it-
erations T0 we would like to have λk = 0 ∀k > T0
so that eventually the student becomes independent of
the teacher and acts purely to maximise its own re-
wards.
• The resulting formulation still uses reinforcement
learning and is not reduced to supervised learning.
The student is no longer forced to exactly replicate the
teacher’s behaviour. As we will show in Section 5 the
presence of the RL component in the objective leads
to higher rewards compared to using the distillation
loss only.
Our auxiliary loss can also be seen from the perspec-
tive of entropy regularisation.
In the A3C actor-critic
method (Mnih et al., 2016) one adds the negated entropy
H(πS(a|xt, ω)) as an auxiliary loss to encourage explo-
ration. But minimisation of negated entropy is equivalent
to minimising the KL divergence DKL(πS(a|xt, ω)∥U),
where U is a uniform distribution over actions. Similarly
the kickstarter loss is equivalent to the KL divergence be-
tween the teacher and the student policies. In this sense,
the kickstarter loss can be seen as encouraging behaviour
similar to the teacher, but just as entropy regularisation is
not supposed to lead to convergence to a uniform policy,
the goal of kickstarting is not to converge to the teacher’s
policy. The aim of both is to provide a helpful auxiliary
loss, based on what is a sensible behaviour – for the case of
entropy regularization it is just sampling a random action,
while for kickstarting it is following the teacher.
In the following sections we elaborate on the terms com-
prising the full learning objective and the corresponding
update rules (Section 2.2), and describe how one can adjust
λk in an automatic, reward-driven manner (Section 2.3).
2.2. Kickstarting Actor-Critic
We begin with a brief recap of the actor-critic RL objec-
tive (Mnih et al., 2016). The updates for the policy can be
expressed as a simple loss over the sampled trajectory and
consists of two terms: the ﬁrst corresponds to reward max-
imisation (i.e. the policy gradient term) and the second cor-
responds to entropy regularisation (a term to encourage ex-
ploration). Using the notation introduced in previous sec-
tions it can be written as:
ℓA3C(ω, x, t) = log πS(at|xt, ω)(rt + γvt+1 −V (xt|θ))
−βH(πS(a|xt, ω))
where x are sampled from the learner’s policy (i.e. the tra-
jectories are on-policy), β is the exploration weight, vt+1
is the value function target, and V (xt; θ) is a value approx-
imation computed by the critic network parameterised by θ
(θ and ω do not have to be disjoint, e.g. when the policy and
critic are implemented as separate heads on top of a shared
network, which is the case here). The critic is updated by
minimising the loss to the value target ∥V (xt; θ) −vt∥2
2.
Consequently, the A3C kickstarting loss becomes:
ℓA3C(ω, x, t) + λkH(πT (a|xt)∥πS(a|xt, ω)).
(3)
Note that the ℓA3C term contains an entropy cost, which
encourages the student to explore beyond the teacher’s su-
pervision.
IMPALA (Espeholt et al., 2018) extends the actor-critic
formulation of (Mnih et al., 2016) to a large-scale setting
with distributed worker machines. Multiple actor work-
ers interact with copies of the environment, taking actions
according to the current policy, and generating trajecto-
ries of experience. These trajectories are sent to a learner
worker, which computes the policy update on a batch of
trajectories. Due to the lag between sampling actions (by
the actors) and computing the update (by the learner), IM-
PALA’s actor-critic algorithm (called V-trace) is off-policy,
and consequently needs to employ a correction (based on
importance sampling).
V-trace introduces importance sampling weights ρt to the
policy gradient for a student trajectory, x, corresponding to
maximising the expected return at step t:
ρt∇ω log πS(at|xt, ω)
 rt + γvt+1 −V (xt|θ)

.
(4)
Apart from this modiﬁcation, it follows the actor critic
loss and thus incorporation of Kickstarting into IMPALA
is analogous to any other actor-critic system. The only dif-
ference is that the trajectories used for the kickstarting loss
now come from the actors of the student policy, rather than
directly from the student.

Kickstarting Deep Reinforcement Learning
2.3. Population Based Training
An important element of the proposed method is the ad-
justment of the schedule of kickstarter loss weights (λk in
Eq. 2). While this can be done manually – similarly to how
learning rate schedules are often hand-crafted for a given
application – it requires additional expert knowledge of the
problem, and a method of trial and error, which is time-
consuming. This problem becomes even more pronounced
if we have K teachers, rather than a single teacher; thereby
requiring tuning for K different schedules.
An alternative, which we employ, is to use an online hy-
perparameter tuning technique: the recently proposed Pop-
ulation Based Training (Jaderberg et al., 2017) (PBT). This
method trains a population of agents in parallel in order
to jointly optimise network weights and hyperparameters
which affect learning dynamics (such as the learning rate
or entropy cost). In our instantiation of PBT, each agent
periodically selects another member of the population at
random and checks whether its performance is signiﬁcantly
better than its own. If this is true, weights and hyperpa-
rameters of the better agent are adopted. Independently of
the outcome, with ﬁxed probability, each hyperparameter
is slightly modiﬁed for the purpose of exploration.
While using PBT is not essential to get the beneﬁts of kick-
starting, we found it useful in practice, as it helps to further
decrease the time it takes to perform research iterations. In
particular, it allows us to automatically adjust the schedule
for λk separately for each teacher in a multi-teacher sce-
nario, while simultaneously adjusting the learning rate as
well as the entropy regularisation strength.
3. Related Work
The idea of having experts which can be used to train new
agents through matching the output distributions was ex-
plored originally for supervised learning and model com-
pression (Hinton et al., 2015; Ba & Caruana, 2014; Bucilu
et al., 2006), and was subsequently adapted for multitask
reinforcement learning. Typically one gathers experience
from expert policies, which are then used to train a student
model using supervised learning (Rusu et al., 2015; Berseth
et al., 2018). Consequently the focus has hitherto been on
compression and teacher-matching, rather than the ultimate
goal of reward maximisation.
Similarly in the Actor-Mimic (Parisotto et al., 2015) ap-
proach, one tries to replicate the teacher’s behaviour to later
exploit it for transfer learning. In departure from (Rusu
et al., 2015), the Actor-Mimic collects experience from the
student policy, and this is empirically shown to be beneﬁ-
cial for replication of the teacher’s behaviour. Although it
is not explored in these papers, after performing distillation
one could ﬁne-tune the student policy using rewards.
From this perspective kickstarting can be seen as a contin-
uous version of such two-phase learning, with a focus on
reward maximisation from the very beginning (which does
not require arbitrary stopping criteria for any of the phases,
as it is a joint optimisation problem).
In this sense it is even more related to the dynamics of
learning emerging from Distral (Teh et al., 2017). How-
ever there the focus is on the performance of teachers, and a
student is used purely as a communication channel between
them (as one jointly tries to distill knowledge from teachers
to the student, and the student regularises the teachers so
they do not move too far away from its policy). Finally, the
kickstarting approach has similarities to the ‘never-ending
learning’ paradigm (Mitchell et al., 2015; Chen et al., 2013;
Carlson et al., 2010), which has long argued that machines
should gradually accumulate knowledge from diverse ex-
perience and over long timeframes.
4. Experimental Setup
All experiments were based on the IMPALA agent (Es-
peholt et al., 2018), trained on the DMLab-30 task
suite (Beattie et al., 2016). We ﬁrst give an outline of the
construction of the agent. We follow that with a short de-
scription of the task suite.
4.1. IMPALA
We experiment with the same two agent network architec-
tures as in (Espeholt et al., 2018). Both architectures have
a convolutional pathway for visual features, followed by an
LSTM, the ouptut of which is fed to policy and value heads.
These heads are simple linear layers. For the tasks where
language input is available, there is an additional language
LSTM whose output is concatenated with the output of the
visual network. The ‘small’ agent is intended as a sim-
pler baseline, which is fast to train, and has 2 convolutional
layers. The ‘large’ agent represents the state of the art for
these tasks; it has 15 convolutional layers, and signiﬁcantly
outperforms the small agent.
4.2. Population Based Training
In our experiments each population member comprised one
high-capacity learner worker (running on a Nvidia P100
GPU) and 150 actor workers, with each actor running a sin-
gle copy of the environment. The workers were distributed
equally, 5 per task, between the 30 tasks of the suite.
For the multi-teacher setup, we use a separate λi
k for each
teacher, and allow PBT to choose a schedule for each.
However, we expect that the distillation weights will be
correlated. Hence we implement the weights in factorised
way: λi
k = αkρi
k, so that the evolution algorithm can make
all weights stronger or weaker simultaneously.

Kickstarting Deep Reinforcement Learning
4.3. DMLab-30 Suite
We evaluate our agents on the DMLab-30 task suite (Beat-
tie et al., 2016). DMLab-30 consists of 30 distinct tasks that
are designed to challenge a broad range of agent “cogni-
tive capabilities”. For example, the suite includes tasks in-
volving navigation through procedurally-generated mazes
(requiring short- and long-term memory of maze structure,
and in some cases planning and prediction), tasks of for-
aging for food items in naturalistic environments (chal-
lenging the visual system of an agent), and tasks based
on classical experiments from cognitive neuroscience like
visual search (Leibo et al., 2018). Due to the breadth of
tasks and the complexity of the 3D environments, this suite
comprises a challenging and comprehensive benchmark for
agent development.
We measure the performance of each agent on DMLab-30
by calculating the mean capped human-normalised score.
We record the average return for all episodes in a window
of 30 million environment frames that the IMPALA learner
experiences. We normalise the per task score relative to
human performance, where human performance is consid-
ered to be 100. These scores are then capped at 100. This
capping provides us with a metric that helps focus on pro-
ducing agents that have human level competency across the
entire suite, rather than allowing, for instance, an agent to
merely exploit its super-human reaction times and conse-
quently achieve a very high score due to signiﬁcant skew
on a small subset of tasks. To obtain a score for the full
suite, we average this human-normalised score across all
30 tasks.
5. Experimental Results
We present agent kickstarting results using a single teacher
and using multiple teachers separately, in section 5.1 and
5.2 respectively.
5.1. Kickstarting With a Single Teacher
We experiment with kickstarting from a single small
teacher to a large student agent. This resembles the typical
architecture exploration use-case where a large architecture
sweep takes place after a small preliminary study. Figure 2
compares kickstarted training to from-scratch training per-
formance over time. We observe a substantial speedup:
6.92× to reach a score of 30, and 1.53× to reach a score
of 50. In fact, it takes the large student only about 1 billion
frames to reach the small teacher’s ﬁnal (after 10 billion
frames) performance. Table 1 gives a speedup break-down.
Figure 2 also shows the schedule for the kickstarting dis-
tillation weight over the same time period, showing a re-
duction to almost negligible weight after 2 billion steps. At
that point the student is essentially free, and it continues
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Environment Frames
1e10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Mean Capped Normalised Score
Kickstarting with a single small teacher
Large kickstarted with small teacher
Large from scratch
Small from scratch
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Environment Frames
1e10
10
−9
10
−8
10
−7
10
−6
10
−5
10
−4
10
−3
10
−2
10
−1
10
0
10
1
Distillation weight λk
Figure 2. Performance of agents on all DMLab-30 tasks. We ob-
serve that the kickstarted agent learns faster than small and large
from-scratch agents. Top: Rolling average of agent’s score (mean
of top-3 PBT population members each). Bottom: PBT evolution
of kickstarting distillation weight over the course of training for
the best population member. See also Table 1.
to learn and surpasses the teacher by a margin of +43.4%
(56.9 vs. 39.7 DMLab-30 score).
We also experimented with kickstarting a large student
agent with a large teacher trained from scratch. Figure 4
shows that this agent achieves higher performance than the
equivalent agent kickstarted by a small teacher. This is as
expected, reﬂecting the better tuition from the large teacher
agent, as compared to the small teacher.
5.1.1. PBT AND OTHER DISTILLATION WEIGHTING
APPROACHES
As mentioned, we expect the distillation weight λk to
be important, especially as the student’s performance ap-
proaches the teacher’s. Thus, we consider ways to con-
trol λk, including various hand-crafted schedules and con-
stants. Results are shown in Table 2 and Figure 3. Note
that even for the manually-speciﬁed schedules, PBT still
controls other hyperparameters (learning rate and entropy
cost), as described in (Espeholt et al., 2018). In general,

Kickstarting Deep Reinforcement Learning
Table 1. Beneﬁts of kickstarting with a single small teacher. We report score after a ﬁxed number of frames have been experienced, and
the total number of frames required in order to reach ﬁxed levels of performance. See also Figure 2.
Score at Frames
Frames to Reach Score
0.5B
1.0B
2.0B
10.0B
30.0
40.0
50.0
Large kickstarted
37.4
39.4
42.4
56.9
0.13B
1.39B
5.31B
Large from scratch
24.1
31.1
37.5
51.9
0.99B
3.26B
8.14B
Improvement
+55.2%
+26.7%
+13.1%
+9.6%
6.92×
2.35×
1.53×
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Environment Frames
1e10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Mean Capped Normalised Score
Distillation weight scheduling strategies
PBT
Linear schedules
From scratch
Constant schedules
Figure 3. Performance of different strategies for changing the dis-
tillation weight λk over the course of training. Agents with a
constant setting of λk perform well at ﬁrst, but their performance
ultimately plateaus. Linear schedules can work well, but only if
chosen correctly. PBT performance is competitive and alleviates
the need for sweeps over such schedules. The reported metric is
the average DMLab-30 score of the top-3 population members for
each method. The ‘From Scratch’ curve shows the performance
of the teacher agent for comparison. See also Table 2.
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Environment Frames
1e10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Mean Capped Normalised Score
Kickstarting with multiple teachers
Large kickstarted with multiple large teachers
Large kickstarted with multiple small teachers
Large kickstarted with single large teacher
Large kickstarted with single small teacher
Large from scratch
Figure 4. Comparison of performance for agents kickstarted with
a single (large or small) teacher and with multiple (large or small)
teachers, showing a signiﬁcant boost for both multiple teachers
and for larger teachers. Kickstarting always improves over multi-
task training from scratch. The reported metric is the average
DMLab-30 score among the top-3 PBT members.
Table 2. Final performance for different distillation weight
scheduling strategies. The reported metric is average DMLab-30
score of the top-3 population members at 10B frames. See also
Figure 3.
Score at Frames
1.0B
10.0B
Baselines
Small from scratch (teacher)
21.6
39.7
Large from scratch
31.1
51.9
Kickstarting: PBT
Large kickstarted with small teacher
39.4
56.9
Kickstarting: Constant Schedules
Schedule: constant = 1
40.0
41.2
Schedule: constant = 2
39.6
40.8
Kickstarting: Linear Schedules
Schedule: linear from 1 to 0 at 1B
41.3
59.4
Schedule: linear from 1 to 0 at 2B
40.1
60.8
Schedule: linear from 1 to 0 at 4B
39.9
53.1
Schedule: linear from 2 to 0 at 1B
40.7
60.5
Schedule: linear from 2 to 0 at 2B
40.0
51.5
Schedule: linear from 2 to 0 at 4B
39.2
50.3
constant schedules can perform well early on, but ulti-
mately cause the agent to plateau near the teacher’s ﬁnal
performance, suggesting that the agent is trying too hard
to match the teacher. Linear schedules that reduce λk to 0
tend to work better, although it is important to reduce this
weight quickly, a fact that was not apparent a priori. Using
PBT to control this hyperparameter works nearly as well as
the best manually-speciﬁed schedules, suggesting that it is
an efﬁcient alternative to running a sweep across schedules.
5.2. Kickstarting With Multiple Teachers
We next extend kickstarting to a scenario where we have
multiple ‘expert’ teachers, potentially trained separately on
different tasks.
We expect that the ensemble of experts
will together have considerably more knowledge about the
task suite, and so ideally the student will absorb even more
knowledge than it could from a single teacher.

Kickstarting Deep Reinforcement Learning
Table 3. Beneﬁts of kickstarting with multiple teachers, analogous to Table 1. We report score after a ﬁxed number of frames have been
experienced, and the total number of frames required to reach ﬁxed levels of performance. See also Figure 4.
Score at Frames
Frames to Reach Score
0.5B
1.0B
2.0B
10.0B
30.0
50.0
70.0
Large kickstarted
44.8
51.0
61.3
73.8
0.21B
0.85B
4.27B
Large from scratch
24.1
31.1
37.5
51.9
0.99B
8.14B
-
Improvement
+85.9%
+64.0%
+63.5%
+42.2%
4.29×
9.58×
-
Figure 4 and Table 3 show our overall results in this sce-
nario. Indeed, the kickstarted agent achieves high perfor-
mance, far higher than an agent trained from scratch, and
even higher than an agent kickstarted with a single teacher
(73.8 vs 56.9 for a comparable single teacher setup). This
suggests that kickstarting works well even when combin-
ing the expertise of many diverse agents, which means that
multi-expert kickstarting is a good way to learn a single
agent that performs well on a large set of tasks.
5.2.1. EXPERT KICKSTARTING VS. DISTILLATION
Figure 5 shows a comparison between agents kickstarted
with multiple teachers and an agent of the same architecture
trained purely with the distillation loss (2), without any of
the typical reinforcement learning losses, and thus similar
to Policy Distillation and Actor-Mimic (Rusu et al., 2015;
Parisotto et al., 2015). Kickstarting outperforms distillation
by a signiﬁcant margin, with the gap widening as training
time increases. This suggests that it is useful for the stu-
dent to learn from its own rewards as well as the teacher’s
policy, and indeed necessary for the student to outperform
the teacher.
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Environment Frames
1e10
40
45
50
55
60
65
70
75
Mean Capped Normalised Score
Kickstarting with PBT variants vs. distillation
Kickstarted, per−task λi
k with PBT
Kickstarted, shared λk with PBT
Kickstarted, constant λ
Distillation baseline
Figure 5. Comparison of four approaches for knowledge trans-
fer from multiple large teachers: kickstarting with three PBT
parametrizations for the distillation weight λ (constant weight
across all tasks λ, evolved shared weight for all tasks λk, evolved
per-task weight λi
k), and a pure policy distillation agent without
any reinforcement learning loss.
5.2.2. ANALYSIS OF DISTILLATION WEIGHT λk
Thus far we have considered a single approach to setting
λk: a separate λi
k for the i’th teacher, where PBT auto-
matically selects a schedule for each. This follows from
the intuition that the student may surpass different experts
at different times. However, one might ask how important
it is to tune schedules separately in practice. Figure 5 ex-
plores alternatives where a shared λk is used for all teachers
and updated via PBT, or where a constant λ is used for all
teachers. While a ﬁxed schedule still performs poorly, we
ﬁnd that a separate λi
k for each teacher provides a negligi-
ble boost, suggesting that the procedure is not exceptionally
sensitive to this hyperparameter.
5.2.3. PER TASK PERFORMANCE
We brieﬂy analyze agent performance on a few DMLab-
30 tasks to gain insight into our performance gains when
kickstarting with multiple teachers. Two kinds of tasks,
laser tag and navigation, are particularly informative.
The task suite contains a set of similar ‘laser tag’ tasks in
which agents must navigate a procedurally-generated maze
and tag other opponent ‘bots’ with a laser. Figure 6 shows
the performance of three types of agent: a multi-task agent
kickstarted with expert teachers; a multi-task agent trained
from-scratch; and a single-task expert agent. In the 1-bot
variant, encounters with the single opponent (and thus re-
wards) are very sparse: thus the from-scratch agent and
even the single-task expert do not learn. The multi-teacher
kickstarted agent, however, learns quickly. The reason is
that a single-task expert learned strong performance on the
3-bot task (thanks to denser rewards), and its knowledge
transfers to the 1-bot variant. In fact, we ﬁnd the student
‘ignores’ the (incompentent) 1-bot expert (its λi
k quickly
goes to 0). Figure 7 shows the performance on the “ex-
plore goal locations small” navigation task. Here, the agent
must repeatedly navigate a random maze: for several tri-
als, the spawn position is random, but the goal location and
maze layout remain the same. Agents that cannot remem-
ber the maze layout after respawning–such as the from-
scratch agent in Figure 7–cannot score higher than 300 on
this task.

Kickstarting Deep Reinforcement Learning
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Environment Frames
1e10
−2
0
2
4
6
8
10
Mean Return
Task: lasertag_1_opponent_large
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Environment Frames
1e10
−5
0
5
10
15
20
25
Task: lasertag_3_opponents_large
Large kickstarted with multiple large teachers
Large expert for lasertag_3_opponents_large
Large expert for lasertag_1_opponent_large
Large from scratch
Figure 6. Performance of a from-scratch multi-task agent, two single-task expert agents (distinct for each task), and a multi-task agent
kickstarted with experts on two laser-tag tasks. The multitask from-scratch agent learns neither task. The expert on the (easier) 3-bot
task learns, whereas the agent trained solely on the (harder) 1-bot variant does not. The student kickstarted using the experts masters
both the 1- and 3-bot variants, indicating transfer from the 3- to the 1-bot environment.
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Environment Frames
1e10
0
100
200
300
400
500
Mean Return
Task: explore_goal_locations_small
Small expert for explore_goal_locations_small
Large kickstarted with multiple small teachers
Small from scratch
Figure 7. Performance of a from-scratch multi-task agent, a
single-task expert, and a multi-task agent kickstarted with experts
on a navigation task. The multitask from-scratch agent fails to ac-
quire short-term memory, while the agent kickstarted with expert
teachers does thanks to the expert.
The expert learns to use its short term memory and scores
considerably higher and, thanks to this expert, the kick-
started agent also masters the task. This is perhaps sur-
prising because the kickstarting mechanism only guides
the student agent in which action to take: it puts no con-
straint on how the student structures its internal memory
state. However, the student can only predict the teacher’s
behaviour by remembering information from before the
respawn, which seems to be enough supervisory signal to
drive short-term memory formation. We ﬁnd this a won-
derful parallel with how the best human educators teach:
not telling the student what to think, but simply putting the
student in a fruitful position to learn for themselves.
6. Conclusion
We have presented kickstarting – a training paradigm that
helps both shorten the cycle-time for research iterations
in deep RL, and that helps student agents achieve perfor-
mances that exceed those attained by agents trained from
scratch.
The method is simple to implement in policy-
based reinforcement learning setups. In contrast to policy
distillation, our method allows students to actively balance
their own learning objectives with the advice given by the
teachers. This feature allows the students to surpass the
performance of their teachers.
More fundamentally, we believe this result opens the path-
way to a new research direction, where new agents are de-
signed to be adept in absorbing and using the knowledge of
previously trained agents. Indeed, it might be possible for
this scheme to lead to the training of complex agents that
would not have been possible to train from scratch in the
absence of their particular ancestral lineage.
Acknowledgements
We thank Lasse Espeholt, Hubert Soyer, and Chloe Hillier
for helpful discussions, advice and support.
References
Argall, Brenna D., Chernova, Sonia, Veloso, Manuela,
and Browning, Brett. A survey of robot learning from
demonstration.
Robotics and Autonomous Systems,
2009.

Kickstarting Deep Reinforcement Learning
Ba, Jimmy and Caruana, Rich. Do deep nets really need to
be deep? In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems 27, pp. 2654–2662, 2014.
Beattie, Charles, Leibo, Joel Z., Teplyashin, Denis,
Ward, Tom, Wainwright, Marcus, Kuttler, Heinrich,
Lefrancq,
Andrew,
Green,
Simon,
Valdes,
Victor,
Sadik, Amir, Schrittwieser, Julian, Anderson, Keith,
York, Sarah, Cant, Max, Cain, Adam, Bolton, Adrian,
Gaffney, Stephen, King, Helen, Hassabis, Demis, Legg,
Shane, and Petersen, Stig.
DeepMind Lab.
CoRR,
abs/1612.03801, 2016.
Berseth, Glen, Xie, Cheng, Cernek, Paul, and Van de
Panne, Michiel. Progressive reinforcement learning with
distillation for multi-skilled motion control. ICLR, 2018.
Bucilu, Cristian, Caruana, Rich, and Niculescu-Mizil,
Alexandru. Model compression. In Proceedings of the
12th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowl-
edge discovery and data mining. ACM, 2006.
Carlson, Andrew, Betteridge, Justin, Kisiel, Bryan, Settles,
Burr, Hruschka Jr, Estevam R, and Mitchell, Tom M. To-
ward an architecture for never-ending language learning.
In AAAI, volume 5, pp. 3. Atlanta, 2010.
Chen, Xinlei, Shrivastava, Abhinav, and Gupta, Abhinav.
NEIL: Extracting visual knowledge from web data. In
ICCV, pp. 1409–1416. IEEE, 2013.
Espeholt, Lasse, Soyer, Hubert, Munos, Remi, Simonyan,
Karen, Mnih, Volodymir, Ward, Tom, Doron, Yotam,
Firoiu, Vlad, Harley, Tim, Dunning, Iain, Legg, Shane,
and Kavukcuoglu, Koray. IMPALA: Scalable distributed
deep-RL with importance weighted actor-learner archi-
tectures. arXiv:1802.01561, 2018.
Girshick, Ross, Donahue, Jeff, Darrell, Trevor, and Malik,
Jitendra. Rich feature hierarchies for accurate object de-
tection and semantic segmentation. In Proceedings of the
IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recog-
nition, pp. 580–587, 2014.
Gulcehre, Caglar, Moczulski, Marcin, Visin, Francesco,
and Bengio, Yoshua.
Mollifying networks.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:1608.04980, 2016.
Henrich, Joseph. The secret of our success: how culture is
driving human evolution, domesticating our species, and
making us smarter. Princeton University Press, 2015.
Hinton, Geoffrey, Vinyals, Oriol, and Dean, Jeff. Distilling
the knowledge in a neural network. arXiv:1503.02531,
2015.
Jaderberg, Max, Dalibard, Valentin, Osindero, Simon,
Czarnecki, Wojciech M., Donahue, Jeff, Razavi, Ali,
Vinyals, Oriol, Green, Tim, Dunning, Iain, Simonyan,
Karen, Fernando, Chrisantha, and Kavukcuoglu, Koray.
Population based training of neural networks.
CoRR,
abs/1711.09846, 2017.
Leibo, Joel Z, d’Autume, Cyprien de Masson, Zoran,
Daniel, Amos, David, Beattie, Charles, Anderson, Keith,
Casta˜neda, Antonio Garc´ıa, Sanchez, Manuel, Green,
Simon, Gruslys, Audrunas, et al. Psychlab: A psychol-
ogy laboratory for deep reinforcement learning agents.
arXiv:1801.08116, 2018.
Mitchell, Tom M, Cohen, William W, Hruschka Jr, Este-
vam R, Talukdar, Partha Pratim, Betteridge, Justin, Carl-
son, Andrew, Mishra, Bhavana Dalvi, Gardner, Matthew,
Kisiel, Bryan, Krishnamurthy, Jayant, et al. Never end-
ing learning. In AAAI, pp. 2302–2310, 2015.
Mnih, Volodymyr, Badia, Adri`a Puigdom`enech, Mirza,
Mehdi, Graves, Alex, Lillicrap, Timothy P., Harley, Tim,
Silver, David, and Kavukcuoglu, Koray. Asynchronous
methods for deep reinforcement learning. International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2016.
Mobahi, Hossein. Training recurrent neural networks by
diffusion. arXiv preprint arXiv:1601.04114, 2016.
Oquab, Maxime, Bottou, L´eon, Laptev, Ivan, and Sivic,
Josef. Learning and transferring mid-level image rep-
resentations using convolutional neural networks. 2014
IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, pp. 1717–1724, 2014.
Parisotto, Emilio, Ba, Jimmy Lei, and Salakhutdinov, Rus-
lan. Actor-mimic: Deep multitask and transfer reinforce-
ment learning. arXiv:1511.06342, 2015.
Rusu, Andrei A., Colmenarejo, Sergio Gomez, G¨ulc¸ehre,
C¸ aglar, Desjardins, Guillaume, Kirkpatrick, James, Pas-
canu, Razvan, Mnih, Volodymyr, Kavukcuoglu, Ko-
ray, and Hadsell, Raia.
Policy distillation.
CoRR,
abs/1511.06295, 2015.
Sutton, R.S. and Barto, A.G. Reinforcement learning: An
introduction, volume 116. Cambridge Univ Press, 1998.
Teh, Yee, Bapst, Victor, Czarnecki, Wojciech M, Quan,
John, Kirkpatrick, James, Hadsell, Raia, Heess, Nicolas,
and Pascanu, Razvan. Distral: Robust multitask rein-
forcement learning. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, pp. 4499–4509, 2017.
