The StarCraft Multi-Agent Challenge
Mikayel Samvelyan∗1
Tabish Rashid∗2
Christian Schroeder de Witt2
Gregory Farquhar2
Nantas Nardelli2 Tim G. J. Rudner2 Chia-Man Hung2 Philip H. S. Torr2 Jakob Foerster3
Shimon Whiteson2
1Russian-Armenian University
2University of Oxford
3Facebook AI Research
Abstract
In the last few years, deep multi-agent reinforcement learning (RL) has become a
highly active area of research. A particularly challenging class of problems in this
area is partially observable, cooperative, multi-agent learning, in which teams of
agents must learn to coordinate their behaviour while conditioning only on their
private observations. This is an attractive research area since such problems are
relevant to a large number of real-world systems and are also more amenable to
evaluation than general-sum problems.
Standardised environments such as the ALE and MuJoCo have allowed single-
agent RL to move beyond toy domains, such as grid worlds. However, there
is no comparable benchmark for cooperative multi-agent RL. As a result, most
papers in this ﬁeld use one-off toy problems, making it difﬁcult to measure real
progress. In this paper, we propose the StarCraft Multi-Agent Challenge (SMAC)
as a benchmark problem to ﬁll this gap.1 SMAC is based on the popular real-time
strategy game StarCraft II and focuses on micromanagement challenges where
each unit is controlled by an independent agent that must act based on local
observations. We offer a diverse set of challenge scenarios and recommendations
for best practices in benchmarking and evaluations. We also open-source a deep
multi-agent RL learning framework including state-of-the-art algorithms.2 We
believe that SMAC can provide a standard benchmark environment for years to
come. Videos of our best agents for several SMAC scenarios are available at:
https://youtu.be/VZ7zmQ_obZ0.
1
Introduction
Deep reinforcement learning (RL) promises a scalable approach to solving arbitrary sequential
decision-making problems, demanding only that a user must specify a reward function that expresses
the desired behaviour. However, many real-world problems that might be tackled by RL are inherently
multi-agent in nature. For example, the coordination of self-driving cars, autonomous drones, and
other multi-robot systems are becoming increasingly critical. Network trafﬁc routing, distributed
sensing, energy distribution, and other logistical problems are also inherently multi-agent. As such, it
is essential to develop multi-agent RL (MARL) solutions that can handle decentralisation constraints
and deal with the exponentially growing joint action space of many agents.
Partially observable, cooperative, multi-agent learning problems are of particular interest. Cooperative
problems avoid difﬁculties in evaluation inherent with general-sum games (e.g., which opponents
are evaluated against). Cooperative problems also map well to a large class of critical problems
where a single user that manages a distributed system can specify the overall goal, e.g., minimising
∗Equal contribution. Correspondence to <mikayel@samvelyan.com> or <tabish.rashid@cs.ox.ac.uk>.
1Code is available at https://github.com/oxwhirl/smac
2Code is available at https://github.com/oxwhirl/pymarl
Accepted at the Workshop on Deep Reinforcement Learning at the 33rd Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2019), Vancouver, Canada.
arXiv:1902.04043v5  [cs.LG]  9 Dec 2019

trafﬁc or other inefﬁciencies. Most real-world problems depend on inputs from noisy or limited
sensors, so partial observability must also be dealt with effectively. This often includes limitations on
communication that result in a need for decentralised execution of learned policies. However, there
commonly is access to additional information during training, which may be carried out in controlled
conditions or simulation.
A growing number of recent works (Foerster et al., 2018a; Rashid et al., 2018; Sunehag et al., 2017;
Lowe et al., 2017) have begun to address the problems in this space. However, there is a clear lack
of standardised benchmarks for research and evaluation. Instead, researchers often propose one-off
environments which can be overly simple or tuned to the proposed algorithms. In single-agent RL,
standard environments such as the Arcade Learning Environment (Bellemare et al., 2013), or MuJoCo
for continuous control (Plappert et al., 2018), have enabled great progress. In this paper, we aim to
follow this successful model by offering challenging standard benchmarks for deep MARL and to
facilitate more rigorous experimental methodology across the ﬁeld.
Some testbeds have emerged for other multi-agent regimes, such as Poker (Heinrich & Silver,
2016), Pong (Tampuu et al., 2015), Keepaway Soccer (Stone et al., 2005), or simple gridworld-
like environments (Lowe et al., 2017; Leibo et al., 2017; Yang et al., 2018; Zheng et al., 2017).
Nonetheless, we identify a clear gap in challenging and standardised testbeds for the important set of
domains described above.
To ﬁll this gap, we introduce the StarCraft Multi-Agent Challenge (SMAC). SMAC is built on the
popular real-time strategy game StarCraft II3 and makes use of the SC2LE environment (Vinyals
et al., 2017). Instead of tackling the full game of StarCraft with centralised control, we focus on
decentralised micromanagement challenges (Figure 1). In these challenges, each of our units is
controlled by an independent, learning agent that has to act based only on local observations, while
the opponent’s units are controlled by the hand-coded built-in StarCraft II AI. We offer a diverse set
of scenarios that challenge algorithms to handle high-dimensional inputs and partial observability,
and to learn coordinated behaviour even when restricted to fully decentralised execution.
The full games of StarCraft: BroodWar and StarCraft II have already been used as RL environments,
due to the many interesting challenges inherent to the games (Synnaeve et al., 2016; Vinyals et al.,
2017). DeepMind’s AlphaStar (DeepMind, 2019) has recently shown an impressive level of play
on a StarCraft II matchup using a centralised controller. In contrast, SMAC is not intended as an
environment to train agents for use in full StarCraft II gameplay. Instead, by introducing strict
decentralisation and local partial observability, we use the StarCraft II game engine to build a new set
of rich cooperative multi-agent problems that bring unique challenges, such as the nonstationarity
of learning (Foerster et al., 2017), multi-agent credit assignment (Foerster et al., 2018a), and the
difﬁculty of representing the value of joint actions (Rashid et al., 2018).
To further facilitate research in this ﬁeld, we also open-source PyMARL, a learning framework that
can serve as a starting point for other researchers and includes implementations of several key MARL
algorithms. PyMARL is modular, extensible, built on PyTorch, and serves as a template for dealing
with some of the unique challenges of deep MARL in practice. We include results on our full set
of SMAC environments using QMIX (Rashid et al., 2018) and several baseline algorithms, and
challenge the community to make progress on difﬁcult environments in which good performance has
remained out of reach so far. We also offer a set of guidelines for best practices in evaluations using
our benchmark, including the reporting of standardised performance metrics, sample efﬁciency, and
computational requirements (see Appendix B).
We hope SMAC will serve as a valuable standard benchmark, enabling systematic and robust progress
in deep MARL for years to come.
2
Related Work
Much work has gone into designing environments to test and develop MARL agents. However, not
many of these focused on providing a qualitatively challenging environment that would provide
together elements of partial observability, challenging dynamics, and high-dimensional observation
spaces.
3StarCraft II is the sequel to the game StarCraft and its expansion set Brood War. StarCraft and StarCraft II
are trademarks of Blizzard EntertainmentTM.
2

Stone et al. (2005) presented Keepaway soccer, a domain built on the RoboCup soccer simulator
(Kitano et al., 1997), a 2D simulation of a football environment with simpliﬁed physics, where the
main task consists of keeping a ball within a pre-deﬁned area where agents in teams can reach, steal,
and pass the ball, providing a simpliﬁed setup for studying cooperative MARL. This domain was
later extended to the Half Field Offense task (Kalyanakrishnan et al., 2006; Hausknecht et al., 2016),
which increases the difﬁculty of the problem by requiring the agents to not only keep the ball within
bounds but also to score a goal. Neither task scales well in difﬁculty with the number of agents, as
most agents need to do little coordination. There is also a lack of interesting environment dynamics
beyond the simple 2D physics nor good reward signals, thus reducing the impact of the environment
as a testbed.
Multiple gridworld-like environments have also been explored. Lowe et al. (2017) released a set of
simple grid-world like environments for multi-agent RL alongside an implementation of MADDPG,
featuring a mix of competitive and cooperative tasks focused on shared communication and low level
continuous control. Leibo et al. (2017) show several mixed-cooperative Markov environment focused
on testing social dilemmas, however, they did not release an implementation to further explore the
tasks. Yang et al. (2018); Zheng et al. (2017) present a framework for creating gridworlds focuses
on many-agents tasks, where the number of agents ranges from the hundreds to the millions. This
work, however, focuses on testing for emergent behaviour, since environment dynamics and control
space need to remain relatively simple for the tasks to be tractable. Resnick et al. (2018) propose a
multi-agent environment based on the game Bomberman, encompassing a series of cooperative and
adversarial tasks meant to provide a more challenging set of tasks with a relatively straightforward
2D state observation and simple grid-world-like action spaces.
Learning to play StarCraft games also has been investigated in several communities: work ranging
from evolutionary algorithms to tabular RL applied has shown that the game is an excellent testbed
for both modelling and planning (Ontanón et al., 2013), however, most have focused on single-agent
settings with multiple controllers and classical algorithms. More recently, progress has been made
on developing frameworks that enable researchers working with deep neural networks to test recent
algorithms on these games; work on applying deep RL algorithms to single-agent and multi-agent
versions of the micromanagement tasks has thus been steadily appearing (Usunier et al., 2016;
Foerster et al., 2017, 2018a; Rashid et al., 2018; Nardelli et al., 2018; Hu et al., 2018; Shao et al.,
2018; Foerster et al., 2018b) with the release of TorchCraft (Synnaeve et al., 2016) and SC2LE
(Vinyals et al., 2017), interfaces to respectively StarCraft: BroodWar and StarCraft II. Our work
presents the ﬁrst standardised testbed for decentralised control in this space.
Other work focuses on playing the full game of StarCraft, including macromanagement and tactics
(Pang et al., 2018; Sun et al., 2018; DeepMind, 2019). By introducing decentralisation and local
observability, our agents are excessively restricted compared to normal full gameplay. SMAC is
therefore not intended as an environment to train agents for use in full gameplay. Instead, we use the
StarCraft II game engine to build rich and interesting multi-agent problems.
3
Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
In SMAC, we focus on tasks where a team of agents needs to work together to achieve a common
goal. We brieﬂy review the formalism of such fully cooperative multi-agent tasks as Dec-POMDPs
but refer readers to Oliehoek & Amato (2016) for a more complete picture.
Dec-POMDPs
Formally, a Dec-POMDP G is given by a tuple G = ⟨S, U, P, r, Z, O, n, γ⟩, where
s ∈S is the true state of the environment. At each time step, each agent a ∈A ≡{1, ..., n} chooses
an action ua ∈U, forming a joint action u ∈U ≡U n. This causes a transition of the environment
according to the state transition function P(s′|s, u) : S × U × S →[0, 1].
In contrast to partially-observable stochastic games, all agents in a Dec-POMDP share the same
team reward function r(s, u) : S × U →R, where γ ∈[0, 1) is the discount factor. Dec-POMDPs
consider partially observable scenarios in which an observation function O(s, a) : S × A →Z
determines the observations za ∈Z that each agent draws individually at each time step. Each
agent has an action-observation history τ a ∈T ≡(Z × U)∗, on which it conditions a stochastic
policy πa(ua|τ a) : T × U →[0, 1]. The joint policy π admits a joint action-value function:
Qπ(st, ut) = Est+1:∞,ut+1:∞[Rt|st, ut] , where Rt = P∞
i=0 γirt+i is the discounted return.
3

(a) 2c_vs_64zg
(b) 3s_vs_5z
(c) corridor
Figure 1: Screenshots of three SMAC scenarios.
Centralised training with decentralised execution
If learning proceeds in simulation, as is done
in StarCraft II, or in a laboratory, then it can usually be conducted in a centralised fashion. This gives
rise to the paradigm of centralised training with decentralised execution, which has been well-studied
in the planning community (Oliehoek et al., 2008; Kraemer & Banerjee, 2016). Although training
is centralised, execution is decentralised, i.e., the learning algorithm has access to all local action-
observation histories τ and global state s, but each agent’s learnt policy can condition only on its
own action-observation history τ a.
A number of recent state-of-the-art algorithms use extra state information available in centralised
training to speed up the learning of decentralised policies. Among these, COMA (Foerster et al.,
2018a) is an actor-critic algorithm with a special multi-agent critic baseline, and QMIX (Rashid et al.,
2018) belongs to the Q-learning family.
4
SMAC
SMAC is based on the popular real-time strategy (RTS) game StarCraft II. In a regular full game of
StarCraft II, one or more humans compete against each other or against a built-in game AI to gather
resources, construct buildings, and build armies of units to defeat their opponents.
Akin to most RTSs, StarCraft has two main gameplay components: macromanagement and micro-
management. Macromanagement refers to high-level strategic considerations, such as economy and
resource management. Micromanagement (micro), on the other hand, refers to ﬁne-grained control of
individual units.
StarCraft has been used as a research platform for AI, and more recently, RL. Typically, the game
is framed as a competitive problem: an agent takes the role of a human player, making macroman-
agement decisions and performing micromanagement as a puppeteer that issues orders to individual
units from a centralised controller.
In order to build a rich multi-agent testbed, we instead focus solely on micromanagement. Micro is a
vital aspect of StarCraft gameplay with a high skill ceiling, and is practiced in isolation by amateur and
professional players. For SMAC, we leverage the natural multi-agent structure of micromanagement
by proposing a modiﬁed version of the problem designed speciﬁcally for decentralised control. In
particular, we require that each unit be controlled by an independent agent that conditions only on
local observations restricted to a limited ﬁeld of view centred on that unit (see Figure 2). Groups of
these agents must be trained to solve challenging combat scenarios, battling an opposing army under
the centralised control of the game’s built-in scripted AI.
Proper micro of units during battles maximises the damage dealt to enemy units while minimising
damage received, and requires a range of skills. For example, one important technique is focus ﬁre,
i.e., ordering units to jointly attack and kill enemy units one after another. When focusing ﬁre, it is
important to avoid overkill: inﬂicting more damage to units than is necessary to kill them.
Other common micro techniques include: assembling units into formations based on their armour
types, making enemy units give chase while maintaining enough distance so that little or no damage
is incurred (kiting), coordinating the positioning of units to attack from different directions or taking
advantage of the terrain to defeat the enemy. Figure 1b illustrates how three Stalker units kite ﬁve
enemy Zealots units.
4

Table 1: SMAC challenges.
Name
Ally Units
Enemy Units
2s3z
2 Stalkers & 3 Zealots
2 Stalkers & 3 Zealots
3s5z
3 Stalkers & 5 Zealots
3 Stalkers & 5 Zealots
1c3s5z
1 Colossus, 3 Stalkers & 5 Zealots
1 Colossus, 3 Stalkers & 5 Zealots
5m_vs_6m
5 Marines
6 Marines
10m_vs_11m
10 Marines
11 Marines
27m_vs_30m
27 Marines
30 Marines
3s5z_vs_3s6z
3 Stalkers & 5 Zealots
3 Stalkers & 6 Zealots
MMM2
1 Medivac, 2 Marauders & 7 Marines
1 Medivac, 3 Marauders & 8 Marines
2s_vs_1sc
2 Stalkers
1 Spine Crawler
3s_vs_5z
3 Stalkers
5 Zealots
6h_vs_8z
6 Hydralisks
8 Zealots
bane_vs_bane
20 Zerglings & 4 Banelings
20 Zerglings & 4 Banelings
2c_vs_64zg
2 Colossi
64 Zerglings
corridor
6 Zealots
24 Zerglings
SMAC thus provides a convenient environment for evaluating the effectiveness of MARL algorithms.
The simulated StarCraft II environment and carefully designed scenarios require learning rich cooper-
ative behaviours under partial observability, which is a challenging task. The simulated environment
also provides an additional state information during training, such as information on all the units on
the entire map. This is crucial for facilitating algorithms to take full advantage of the centralised
training regime and assessing all aspects of MARL methods. SMAC is a qualitatively challenging
environment that provides together elements of partial observability, challenging dynamics, and
high-dimensional observation spaces.
Scenarios
SMAC consists of a set of StarCraft II micro scenarios which aim to evaluate how well independent
agents are able to learn coordination to solve complex tasks. These scenarios are carefully designed
to necessitate the learning of one or more micromanagement techniques to defeat the enemy. Each
scenario is a confrontation between two armies of units. The initial position, number, and type of
units in each army varies from scenario to scenario, as does the presence or absence of elevated or
impassable terrain. Figures 1 include screenshots of several SMAC micro scenarios.
The ﬁrst army is controlled by the learned allied agents. The second army consists of enemy units
controlled by the built-in game AI, which uses carefully handcrafted non-learned heuristics. At the
beginning of each episode, the game AI instructs its units to attack the allied agents using its scripted
strategies. An episode ends when all units of either army have died or when a pre-speciﬁed time
limit is reached (in which case the game is counted as a defeat for the allied agents). The goal is to
maximise the win rate, i.e., the ratio of games won to games played.
The complete list of challenges is presented in Table 14. More speciﬁcs on the SMAC scenarios and
environment settings can be found in Appendices A.1 and A.2 respectively.
State and Observations
At each timestep, agents receive local observations drawn within their ﬁeld of view. This encompasses
information about the map within a circular area around each unit and with a radius equal to the sight
range (Figure 2). The sight range makes the environment partially observable from the standpoint of
each agent. Agents can only observe other agents if they are both alive and located within the sight
range. Hence, there is no way for agents to distinguish between teammates that are far away from
those that are dead.
The feature vector observed by each agent contains the following attributes for both allied and
enemy units within the sight range: distance, relative x, relative y, health, shield, and
unit_type. Shields serve as an additional source of protection that needs to be removed before any
damage can be done to the health of units. All Protos units have shields, which can regenerate if
4The list of SMAC scenarios has been updated from the earlier version. All scenarios, however, are still
available in the repository.
5

no new damage is dealt. In addition, agents have access to the last actions of allied units that are in
the ﬁeld of view. Lastly, agents can observe the terrain features surrounding them, in particular, the
values of eight points at a ﬁxed radius indicating height and walkability.
Figure 2: The cyan and red circles respec-
tively border the sight and shooting range of
the agent.
The global state, which is only available to agents dur-
ing centralised training, contains information about
all units on the map. Speciﬁcally, the state vector
includes the coordinates of all agents relative to the
centre of the map, together with unit features present
in the observations. Additionally, the state stores the
energy of Medivacs and cooldown of the rest of
the allied units, which represents the minimum delay
between attacks. Finally, the last actions of all agents
are attached to the central state.
All features, both in the state as well as in the obser-
vations of individual agents, are normalised by their
maximum values. The sight range is set to nine for
all agents.
Action Space
The discrete set of actions that agents are allowed to take consists of move[direction]5,
attack[enemy_id], stop and no-op.6 As healer units, Medivacs use heal[agent_id] actions
instead of attack[enemy_id]. The maximum number of actions an agent can take ranges between
7 and 70, depending on the scenario.
To ensure decentralisation of the task, agents can use the attack[enemy_id] action only on enemies
in their shooting range (Figure 2). This additionally constrains the ability of the units to use the
built-in attack-move macro-actions on the enemies that are far away. We set the shooting range equal
to 6 for all agents. Having a larger sight range than a shooting range forces agents to make use of the
move commands before starting to ﬁre.
Rewards
The overall goal is to maximise the win rate for each battle scenario. The default setting is to use
the shaped reward, which produces a reward based on the hit-point damage dealt and enemy units
killed, together with a special bonus for winning the battle. The exact values and scales for each of
these events can be conﬁgured using a range of ﬂags. To produce fair comparisions we encourage
using this default reward function for all scenarios. We also provide another sparse reward option, in
which the reward is +1 for winning and -1 for losing an episode.
5
PyMARL
To make it easier to develop algorithms for SMAC, we have also open-sourced our software engi-
neering framework PyMARL. PyMARL has been designed explicitly with deep MARL in mind and
allows for out-of-the-box experimentation and development.
PyMARL’s codebase is organized in a modular fashion in order to enable the rapid development
of new algorithms, as well as providing implementations of current deep MARL algorithms to
benchmark against. It is built on top of PyTorch to facilitate the fast execution and training of deep
neural networks, and take advantage of the rich ecosystem built around it. PyMARL’s modularity
makes it easy to extend, and components can be readily isolated for testing purposes.
Since the implementation and development of deep MARL algorithms come with a number of
additional challenges beyond those posed by single-agent deep RL, it is crucial to have simple and
understandable code. In order to improve the readability of code and simplify the handling of data
between components, PyMARL encapsulates all data stored in the buffer within an easy to use data
5Four directions: north, south, east, or west.
6Dead agents can only take no-op action while live agents cannot.
6

structure. This encapsulation provides a cleaner interface for the necessary handling of data in deep
MARL algorithms, whilst not obstructing the manipulation of the underlying PyTorch Tensors. In
addition, PyMARL aims to maximise the batching of data when performing inference or learning so
as to provide signiﬁcant speed-ups over more naive implementations.
PyMARL features implementations of the following algorithms: QMIX (Rashid et al., 2018), QTRAN
(Son et al., 2019) and COMA (Foerster et al., 2018a) as state-of-the-art methods, and VDN (Sunehag
et al., 2017) and IQL (Tan, 1993) as baselines.
6
Results
In this section, we present results for scenarios included as part of SMAC. The purpose of these
results is to demonstrate the performance of the current state-of-the-art methods in our chosen MARL
paradigm.
The evaluation procedure is similar to the one in (Rashid et al., 2018). The training is paused after
every 10000 timesteps during which 32 test episodes are run with agents performing action selection
greedily in a decentralised fashion. The percentage of episodes where the agents defeat all enemy
units within the permitted time limit is referred to as the test win rate.
The architectures and training details are presented in Appendix C. A table of the results is included
in Appendix D. Data from the individual runs are available at the SMAC repo (https://github.
com/oxwhirl/smac).
Figure 3: Left: The median test win %, averaged across all 14 scenarios. Heuristic’s performance is
shown as a dotted line. Right: The number of scenarios in which the algorithm’s median test win %
is the highest by at least 1/32 (smoothed).
Figure 3 plots the median test win percentage averaged across all scenarios to compare the algorithms
across the entire SMAC suite. We also plot the performance of a simple heuristic AI that selects
the closest enemy unit (ignoring partial observability) and attacks it with the entire team until it is
dead, upon which the next closest enemy unit is selected. This is a basic form of focus-ﬁring, which
is a crucial tactic for achieving good performance in micromanagement scenarios. The relatively
poor performance of the heuristic AI shows that the suite of SMAC scenarios requires more complex
behaviour than naively focus-ﬁring the closest enemy, making it an interesting and challenging
benchmark.
Overall QMIX achieves the highest test win percentage and is the best performer on up to eight
scenarios during training. Additionally, IQL, VDN, and QMIX all signiﬁcantly outperform COMA,
demonstrating the sample efﬁciency of off-policy value-based methods over on-policy policy gradient
methods.
Based on the results, we broadly group the scenarios into 3 categories: Easy, Hard, and Super-Hard
based on the performance of the algorithms.
Figure 4 shows that IQL and COMA struggle even on the Easy scenarios, performing poorly on
four of the ﬁve scenarios in this category. This shows the advantage of learning a centralised but
factored centralised Qtot. Even though QMIX exceeds 95% test win rate on all of ﬁve Easy scenarios,
they serve an important role in the benchmark as sanity checks when implementing and testing new
algorithms.
7

Figure 4: Easy scenarios. The heuristic AI’s performance shown as a dotted black line.
Figure 5: Hard scenarios. The heuristic AI’s performance shown as a dotted black line.
The Hard scenarios in Figure 5 each present their own unique problems. 2c_vs_64zg only contains 2
allied agents, but 64 enemy units (the largest in the SMAC benchmark) making the action space of
the agents much larger than the other scenarios. bane_vs_bane contains a large number of allied and
enemy units, but the results show that IQL easily ﬁnds a winning strategy whereas all other methods
struggle and exhibit large variance. 5m_vs_6m is an asymmetric scenario that requires precise
control to win consistently, and in which the best performers (QMIX and VDN) have plateaued in
performance. Finally, 3s_vs_5z requires the three allied stalkers to kite the enemy zealots for the
majority of the episode (at least 100 timesteps), which leads to a delayed reward problem.
Figure 6: Super Hard scenarios. The heuristic AI’s performance shown as a dotted black line.
The scenarios shown in Figure 6 are categorised as Super Hard because of the poor performance of
all algorithms, with only QMIX making meaningful progress on two of the ﬁve. We hypothesise that
exploration is a bottleneck in many of these scenarios, providing a nice test-bed for future research in
this domain.
We also test QTRAN (Son et al., 2019) on three of the easiest scenarios, as shown in Figure 7.
QTRAN fails to achieve good performance on 3s5z and takes far longer to reach the performance of
8

Figure 7: 3 scenarios including QTRAN.
VDN and QMIX on 2s3z. In preliminary experiments, we found the QTRAN-Base algorithm slightly
more performant and more stable than QTRAN-Alt. For more details on the hyperparameters and
architectures considered, please see the Appendix.
Additionally, we compare the necessity of using an agent’s action-observation history by comparing
the performance of an agent network with and without an RNN in Figure 8. On the easy scenario of
3s5z we can see that an RNN is not required to use action-observation information from previous
timesteps, but on the harder scenarios of 3s_vs_5z it is crucial to being able to learn how to kite
effectively.
Figure 8: Comparing agent networks with and without RNNs (QMIX-FF) on 2 scenarios.
7
Conclusion and Future Work
This paper presented SMAC as a set of benchmark problems for cooperative MARL. Based on the
real-time strategy game StarCraft II, SMAC focuses on decentralised micromanagement tasks and
features 14 diverse combat scenarios which challenge MARL methods to handle partial observability
and high-dimensional inputs. We offer recommendations for reporting evaluations using standardised
performance metrics and provide a thorough report and discussion for several state-of-the-art MARL
algorithms, such as QMIX and COMA. Additionally, we are open-sourcing PyMARL - our framework
for design and analysis of deep MARL algorithms.
In the near future, we aim to extend SMAC with new challenging scenarios that feature a more
diverse set of units and require a higher level of coordination amongst agents. Particularly, we plan to
make use of the rich skill set of StarCraft II units, and host scenarios that require the agents to utilise
the features of the terrain. With harder multi-agent coordination problems, we aim to explore the
gaps in existing MARL approaches and motivate further research in this domain, particularly in areas
such as multi-agent exploration and coordination.
We look forward to accepting contributions from the community to SMAC and hope that it will
become a standard benchmark for measuring progress in cooperative MARL.
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank Davit Hayrapetyan for his helpful suggestions about the StarCraft II
scenarios. We also thank Phil Bates and Jon Russell (Oracle Corporation) for guidance deploying
and executing SMAC on Oracle’s public Cloud Infrastructure and the SC2LE teams at DeepMind
and Blizzard for their work on the interface.
The work is supported by the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme
(grant agreement number 637713), the National Institutes of Health (grant agreement number
R01GM114311) and EPSRC/MURI grant EP/N019474/1. It is also supported by the an EPSRC grant
(EP/M508111/1, EP/N509711/1), the Oxford-Google DeepMind Graduate Scholarship, Microsoft
and Free the Drones (FreeD) project under the Innovation Fund Denmark. The experiments were
made possible by generous cloud credit grants from Oracle’s Cloud Innovation Accelerator and
NVIDIA.
9

References
Bellemare, M. G., Naddaf, Y., Veness, J., and Bowling, M. The arcade learning environment: An
evaluation platform for general agents. Journal of Artiﬁcial Intelligence Research, 47:253–279,
jun 2013.
DeepMind.
Alphastar:
Mastering
the
real-time
strategy
game
starcraft
ii,
2019.
URL
https://deepmind.com/blog/
alphastar-mastering-real-time-strategy-game-starcraft-ii/.
Foerster, J., Nardelli, N., Farquhar, G., Afouras, T., Torr, P. H. S., Kohli, P., and Whiteson, S.
Stabilising Experience Replay for Deep Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning. In Proceedings of
the 34th International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 1146–1155, 2017.
Foerster, J., Farquhar, G., Afouras, T., Nardelli, N., and Whiteson, S. Counterfactual multi-agent
policy gradients. In Proceedings of the Thirty-Second AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence,
2018a.
Foerster, J. N., de Witt, C. A. S., Farquhar, G., Torr, P. H., Boehmer, W., and Whiteson, S. Multi-agent
common knowledge reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.11702, 2018b.
Hausknecht, M. and Stone, P. Deep Recurrent Q-Learning for Partially Observable MDPs. In AAAI
Fall Symposium on Sequential Decision Making for Intelligent Agents, 2015.
Hausknecht, M., Mupparaju, P., Subramanian, S., Kalyanakrishnan, S., and Stone, P. Half ﬁeld
offense: an environment for multiagent learning and ad hoc teamwork. In AAMAS Adaptive
Learning Agents (ALA) Workshop, 2016.
Heinrich, J. and Silver, D. Deep reinforcement learning from self-play in imperfect-information
games. CoRR, abs/1603.01121, 2016. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1603.01121.
Hu, Y., Li, J., Li, X., Pan, G., and Xu, M. Knowledge-guided agent-tactic-aware learning for starcraft
micromanagement. In IJCAI, pp. 1471–1477, 2018.
Kalyanakrishnan, S., Liu, Y., and Stone, P. Half ﬁeld offense in robocup soccer: A multiagent
reinforcement learning case study. In Robot Soccer World Cup, pp. 72–85. Springer, 2006.
Kitano, H., Asada, M., Kuniyoshi, Y., Noda, I., and Osawa, E. Robocup: The robot world cup
initiative. In Proceedings of the ﬁrst international conference on Autonomous agents, pp. 340–347.
ACM, 1997.
Kraemer, L. and Banerjee, B. Multi-agent reinforcement learning as a rehearsal for decentralized
planning. Neurocomputing, 190:82–94, 2016.
Leibo, J. Z., Zambaldi, V., Lanctot, M., Marecki, J., and Graepel, T. Multi-agent Reinforcement
Learning in Sequential Social Dilemmas. February 2017. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.
03037. arXiv: 1702.03037.
Lowe, R., Wu, Y., Tamar, A., Harb, J., Abbeel, P., and Mordatch, I. Multi-Agent Actor-Critic
for Mixed Cooperative-Competitive Environments. June 2017. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/
1706.02275. arXiv: 1706.02275.
Nardelli, N., Synnaeve, G., Lin, Z., Kohli, P., Torr, P. H., and Usunier, N. Value propagation networks.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.11199, 2018.
Oliehoek, F. A. and Amato, C. A Concise Introduction to Decentralized POMDPs. Springer-
Briefs in Intelligent Systems. Springer, 2016. URL http://www.springer.com/us/book/
9783319289274.
Oliehoek, F. A., Spaan, M. T. J., and Nikos Vlassis. Optimal and Approximate Q-value Functions for
Decentralized POMDPs. JAIR, 32:289–353, 2008.
Ontanón, S., Synnaeve, G., Uriarte, A., Richoux, F., Churchill, D., and Preuss, M. A survey of real-
time strategy game ai research and competition in starcraft. IEEE Transactions on Computational
Intelligence and AI in games, 5(4):293–311, 2013.
10

Pang, Z.-J., Liu, R.-Z., Meng, Z.-Y., Zhang, Y., Yu, Y., and Lu, T. On reinforcement learning for
full-length game of starcraft. arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.09095, 2018.
Plappert, M., Andrychowicz, M., Ray, A., McGrew, B., Baker, B., Powell, G., Schneider, J., Tobin,
J., Chociej, M., Welinder, P., Kumar, V., and Zaremba, W. Multi-goal reinforcement learning:
Challenging robotics environments and request for research, 2018.
Rashid, T., Samvelyan, M., Schroeder, C., Farquhar, G., Foerster, J., and Whiteson, S. QMIX:
Monotonic Value Function Factorisation for Deep Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning. In
Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 4295–4304, 2018.
Resnick, C., Eldridge, W., Ha, D., Britz, D., Foerster, J., Togelius, J., Cho, K., and Bruna, J.
Pommerman: A multi-agent playground. arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.07124, 2018.
Shao, K., Zhu, Y., and Zhao, D. Starcraft micromanagement with reinforcement learning and
curriculum transfer learning. IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computational Intelligence,
2018.
Son, K., Kim, D., Kang, W. J., Hostallero, D. E., and Yi, Y. QTRAN: Learning to factorize with
transformation for cooperative multi-agent reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the 36th
International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 97 of Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research, pp. 5887–5896. PMLR, 2019.
Stone, P., Kuhlmann, G., Taylor, M. E., and Liu, Y. Keepaway soccer: From machine learning testbed
to benchmark. In Robot Soccer World Cup, pp. 93–105. Springer, 2005.
Sun, P., Sun, X., Han, L., Xiong, J., Wang, Q., Li, B., Zheng, Y., Liu, J., Liu, Y., Liu, H., et al.
Tstarbots: Defeating the cheating level builtin ai in starcraft ii in the full game. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1809.07193, 2018.
Sunehag, P., Lever, G., Gruslys, A., Czarnecki, W. M., Zambaldi, V., Jaderberg, M., Lanctot,
M., Sonnerat, N., Leibo, J. Z., Tuyls, K., and Graepel, T. Value-Decomposition Networks For
Cooperative Multi-Agent Learning. arXiv:1706.05296 [cs], June 2017. URL http://arxiv.
org/abs/1706.05296. arXiv: 1706.05296.
Synnaeve, G., Nardelli, N., Auvolat, A., Chintala, S., Lacroix, T., Lin, Z., Richoux, F., and Usunier,
N. TorchCraft: a Library for Machine Learning Research on Real-Time Strategy Games. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1611.00625, 2016.
Tampuu, A., Matiisen, T., Kodelja, D., Kuzovkin, I., Korjus, K., Aru, J., Aru, J., and Vicente, R.
Multiagent Cooperation and Competition with Deep Reinforcement Learning. November 2015.
URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1511.08779. arXiv: 1511.08779.
Tan, M. Multi-agent reinforcement learning: Independent vs. cooperative agents. In Proceedings of
the tenth international conference on machine learning, pp. 330–337, 1993.
Blizzard Entertainment. New blizzard custom game: Starcraft master. http://us.battle.net/
sc2/en/blog/4544189/new-blizzard-custom-game-starcraft-master-3-1-2012,
2012. Accessed: 2018-11-16.
Usunier, N., Synnaeve, G., Lin, Z., and Chintala, S. Episodic exploration for deep deterministic
policies: An application to starcraft micromanagement tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.02993,
2016.
Vinyals, O., Ewalds, T., Bartunov, S., Georgiev, P., Vezhnevets, A. S., Yeo, M., Makhzani, A.,
Küttler, H., Agapiou, J., Schrittwieser, J., Quan, J., Gaffney, S., Petersen, S., Simonyan, K., Schaul,
T., van Hasselt, H., Silver, D., Lillicrap, T., Calderone, K., Keet, P., Brunasso, A., Lawrence,
D., Ekermo, A., Repp, J., and Tsing, R. StarCraft II: A New Challenge for Reinforcement
Learning. arXiv:1708.04782 [cs], August 2017. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.04782.
arXiv: 1708.04782.
Yang, Y., Luo, R., Li, M., Zhou, M., Zhang, W., and Wang, J. Mean ﬁeld multi-agent reinforcement
learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.05438, 2018.
Zheng, L., Yang, J., Cai, H., Zhang, W., Wang, J., and Yu, Y. Magent: A many-agent reinforcement
learning platform for artiﬁcial collective intelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.00600, 2017.
11

A
SMAC
A.1
Scenarios
Perhaps the simplest scenarios are symmetric battle scenarios, where the two armies are composed
of the same units. Such challenges are particularly interesting when some of the units are extremely
effective against others (this is known as countering), for example, by dealing bonus damage to a
particular armour type. In such a setting, allied agents must deduce this property of the game and
design an intelligent strategy to protect teammates vulnerable to certain enemy attacks.
SMAC also includes more challenging scenarios, for example, in which the enemy army outnumbers
the allied army by one or more units. In such asymmetric scenarios it is essential to consider the
health of enemy units in order to effectively target the desired opponent.
Lastly, SMAC offers a set of interesting micro-trick challenges that require a higher-level of cooper-
ation and a speciﬁc micro trick to defeat the enemy. An example of such scenario is the corridor
scenario (Figure 1c). Here, six friendly Zealots face 24 enemy Zerglings, which requires agents to
make effective use of the terrain features. Speciﬁcally, agents should collectively wall off the choke
point (the narrow region of the map) to block enemy attacks from different directions. The 3s_vs_5z
scenario features three allied Stalkers against ﬁve enemy Zealots (Figure 1b). Since Zealots counter
Stalkers, the only winning strategy for the allied units is to kite the enemy around the map and
kill them one after another. Some of the micro-trick challenges are inspired by StarCraft Master
challenge missions released by Blizzard (Blizzard Entertainment, 2012).
A.2
Environment Setting
SMAC makes use of the StarCraft II Learning Environment (SC2LE) (Vinyals et al., 2017) to
communicate with the StarCraft II engine. SC2LE provides full control of the game by making it
possible to send commands and receive observations from the game. However, SMAC is conceptually
different from the RL environment of SC2LE. The goal of SC2LE is to learn to play the full game of
StarCraft II. This is a competitive task where a centralised RL agent receives RGB pixels as input
and performs both macro and micro with the player-level control similar to human players. SMAC,
on the other hand, represents a set of cooperative multi-agent micro challenges where each learning
agent controls a single military unit.
SMAC uses the raw API of SC2LE. Raw API observations do not have any graphical component and
include information about the units on the map such as health, location coordinates, etc. The raw API
also allows sending action commands to individual units using their unit IDs. This setting differs
from how humans play the actual game, but is convenient for designing decentralised multi-agent
learning tasks.
Furthermore, to encourage agents to explore interesting micro strategies themselves, we limit the
inﬂuence of the StarCraft AI on our agents. In the game of StarCraft II, whenever an idle unit is under
attack, it automatically starts a reply attack towards the attacking enemy units without being explicitly
ordered. We disable such automatic replies towards the enemy attacks or enemy units that are located
closely by creating new units that are the exact copies of existing ones with two attributes modiﬁed:
Combat: Default Acquire Level is set to Passive (default Offensive) and Behaviour: Response is set
to No Response (default Acquire). These ﬁelds are only modiﬁed for allied units; enemy units are
unchanged.
The sight and shooting range values might differ from the built-in sight or range attribute of some
StarCraft II units. Our goal is not to master the original full StarCraft II game, but rather to benchmark
MARL methods for decentralised control.
The game AI is set to level 7, very difﬁcult. Our experiments, however, suggest that this setting does
signiﬁcantly impact the unit micromanagement of the built-in heuristics.
B
Evaluation Methodology
We propose the following methodology for evaluating MARL methods using SMAC.
12

To ensure the fairness of the challenge and comparability of results, performances should be evaluated
under standardised conditions. One should not undertake any changes to the environment used
for evaluating the policies. This includes the observation and state spaces, action space, the game
mechanics, and settings of the environment (e.g., frame-skipping rate). One should not modify the
StarCraft II map ﬁles in any way or change the difﬁculty of the game AI. Episode limits of each
scenario should also remain unchanged.
SMAC restricts the execution of the trained models to be decentralised, i.e., during testing each agent
must base its policy solely on its own action-observation history and cannot use the global state
or the observations of other agents. It is, however, acceptable to train the decentralised policies in
centralised fashion. Speciﬁcally, agents can exchange individual observations, model parameters and
gradients during training as well as make use of the global state.
B.1
Evaluation Metrics
Our main evaluation metric is the mean win percentage of evaluation episodes as a function of envi-
ronment steps observed, over the course of training. Such progress can be estimated by periodically
running a ﬁxed number of evaluation episodes (in practice, 32) with any exploratory behaviours
disabled. Each experiment is repeated using a number of independent training runs and the resulting
plots include the median performance as well as the 25-75% percentiles. We use ﬁve independent
runs for this purpose in order to strike a balance between statistical signiﬁcance and the computational
requirements. We recommend using the median instead of the mean in order to avoid the effect of
any outliers. We report the number of independent runs, as well as environment steps used in training.
Each independent run takes between 8 to 16 hours, depending on the exact scenario, using Nvidia
Geforce GTX 1080 Ti graphics cards.
It can prove helpful to other researchers to include the computational resources used, and the wall
clock time for running each experiment. SMAC provides functionality for saving StarCraft II replays,
which can be viewed using a freely available client. The resulting videos can be used to comment on
interesting behaviours observed.
C
Experimental Setup
C.1
Architecture and Training
The architecture of all agent networks is a DRQN(Hausknecht & Stone, 2015) with a recurrent layer
comprised of a GRU with a 64-dimensional hidden state, with a fully-connected layer before and
after. Exploration is performed during training using independent ϵ-greedy action selection, where
each agent a performs ϵ-greedy action selection over its own Qa. Throughout the training, we anneal
ϵ linearly from 1.0 to 0.05 over 50k time steps and keep it constant for the rest of the learning. We
set γ = 0.99 for all experiments. The replay buffer contains the most recent 5000 episodes. We
sample batches of 32 episodes uniformly from the replay buffer, and train on fully unrolled episodes,
performing a single gradient descent step after every episode. Note: This differs from the earlier an
earlier beta release of SMAC, which trained once after every 8 episodes. The target networks are
updated after every 200 training episodes.
To speed up the learning, we share the parameters of the agent networks across all agents. Because of
this, a one-hot encoding of the agent_id is concatenated onto each agent’s observations. All neural
networks are trained using RMSprop7 with learning rate 5 × 10−4.
The mixing network consists of a single hidden layer of 32 units, utilising an ELU non-linearity. The
hypernetworks consist of a feedforward network with a single hidden layer of 64 units with a ReLU
non-linearity8. The output of the hypernetwork is passed through an absolute function (to acheive
non-negativity) and then resized into a matrix of appropriate size.
The architecture of the COMA critic is a feedforward fully-connected neural network with the ﬁrst 2
layers having 128 units, followed by a ﬁnal layer of |U| units. We set λ = 0.8. We utilise the same
7We set α = 0.99 and do not use weight decay or momentum.
8This differs from the architecture used in (Rashid et al., 2018) and in an earlier beta release of SMAC, in
which a single linear layer was used for the hypernetworks.
13

ϵ-ﬂoor scheme as in (Foerster et al., 2018a) for the agents’ policies, linearlly annealing ϵ from 0.5 to
0.01 over 100k timesteps. For COMA we roll-out 8 episodes and train on those episodes. The critic
is ﬁrst updated, performing a gradient descent step for each timestep in the episode, starting with the
ﬁnal timestep. Then the agent policies are updated by a single gradient descent step on the data from
all 8 episodes.
The architecture of the centralised Q for QTran is similar to the one used in (?). The agent’s
hidden states (64 units) are concatenated with their chosen action (|U| units) and passed through a
feedforward network with a single hidden layer and a ReLU non-linearity to produce an agent-action
embedding (64 + |U| units). The network is shared across all agents. The embeddings are summed
across all agents. The concatentation of the state and the sum of the embeddings is then passed
into the Q network. The Q network consists of 2 hidden layers with ReLU non-linearities with
64 units each. The V network takes the state as input and consists of 2 hidden layers with ReLU
non-linearities with 64 units each. We set λopt = 1 and λnopt_min = 0.1.
We also compared a COMA style architecture in which the input to Q is the state and the joint-actions
encoded as one-hot vectors. For both architectural variants we also tested having 3 hidden layers. For
both network sizes and architectural variants we performed a hyperparameter search over λopt = 1
and λnopt_min ∈{0.1, 1, 10} on all 3 of the maps we tested QTran on and picked the best performer
out of all conﬁgs.
C.2
Reward and Observation
All experiments use the default shaped rewards throughout all scenarios. At each timestep, agents
receive positive rewards, equal to the hit-point damage dealt, and bonuses of 10 and 200 points for
killing each enemy unit and winning the scenario, respectively. The rewards are scaled so that the
maximum cumulative reward achievable in each scenario is around 20.
The agent observations used in the experiments include all features from Section 4, except for the he
last actions of the allied units (within the sight range), terrain height and walkability.
D
Table of Results
Table 2 shows the ﬁnal median performance (maximum median across the testing intervals within the
last 250k of training) of the algorithms tested. The mean test win %, across 1000 episodes, for the
heuristic-based ai is also shown.
Table 2: The Test Win Rate % of IQL, COMA, VDN, QMIX and the heuristic-based algorithm.
IQL
COMA
VDN
QMIX
Heuristic
2s_vs_1sc
100
98
100
100
0
2s3z
75
43
97
99
90
3s5z
10
1
84
97
42
1c3s5z
21
31
91
97
81
10m_vs_11m
34
7
97
97
12
2c_vs_64zg
7
0
21
58
0
bane_vs_bane
99
64
94
85
43
5m_vs_6m
49
1
70
70
0
3s_vs_5z
45
0
91
87
0
3s5z_vs_3s6z
0
0
2
2
0
6h_vs_8z
0
0
0
3
0
27m_vs_30m
0
0
0
49
0
MMM2
0
0
1
69
0
corridor
0
0
0
1
0
14
