What Matters In On-Policy Reinforcement Learning?
A Large-Scale Empirical Study
Marcin Andrychowicz, Anton Raichuk, Piotr Sta´nczyk, Manu Orsini,
Sertan Girgin, Raphael Marinier, Léonard Hussenot, Matthieu Geist,
Olivier Pietquin, Marcin Michalski, Sylvain Gelly, Olivier Bachem
Google Research, Brain Team
Abstract
In recent years, on-policy reinforcement learning (RL) has been successfully
applied to many different continuous control tasks. While RL algorithms are often
conceptually simple, their state-of-the-art implementations take numerous low- and
high-level design decisions that strongly affect the performance of the resulting
agents. Those choices are usually not extensively discussed in the literature,
leading to discrepancy between published descriptions of algorithms and their
implementations. This makes it hard to attribute progress in RL and slows down
overall progress [27]. As a step towards ﬁlling that gap, we implement >50 such
“choices” in a uniﬁed on-policy RL framework, allowing us to investigate their
impact in a large-scale empirical study. We train over 250’000 agents in ﬁve
continuous control environments of different complexity and provide insights and
practical recommendations for on-policy training of RL agents.
1
Introduction
Deep reinforcement learning (RL) has seen increased interest in recent years due to its ability to
have neural-network-based agents learn to act in environments through interactions. For continuous
control tasks, on-policy algorithms such as REINFORCE [2], TRPO [10], A3C [14], PPO [17] and
off-policy algorithms such as DDPG [13] and SAC [21] have enabled successful applications such as
quadrupedal locomotion [20], self-driving [30] or dexterous in-hand manipulation [20, 25, 32].
Many of these papers investigate in depth different loss functions and learning paradigms. Yet, it
is less visible that behind successful experiments in deep RL there are complicated code bases that
contain a large number of low- and high-level design decisions that are usually not discussed in
research papers. While one may assume that such “choices” do not matter, there is some evidence
that they are in fact crucial for or even driving good performance [27].
While there are open-source implementations available that can be used by practitioners, this is still
unsatisfactory: In research publications, often different algorithms implemented in different code
bases are compared one-to-one. This makes it impossible to assess whether improvements are due to
the algorithms or due to their implementations. Furthermore, without an understanding of lower-level
choices, it is hard to assess the performance of high-level algorithmic choices as performance may
strongly depend on the tuning of hyperparameters and implementation-level details. Overall, this
makes it hard to attribute progress in RL and slows down further research [15, 22, 27].
Our contributions. Our key goal in this paper is to investigate such lower level choices in depth
and to understand their impact on ﬁnal agent performance. Hence, as our key contributions, we (1)
implement >50 choices in a uniﬁed on-policy algorithm implementation, (2) conducted a large-scale
(more than 250’000 agents trained) experimental study that covers different aspects of the training
arXiv:2006.05990v1  [cs.LG]  10 Jun 2020

process, and (3) analyze the experimental results to provide practical insights and recommendations
for the on-policy training of RL agents.
Most surprising ﬁnding. While many of our experimental ﬁndings conﬁrm common RL practices,
some of them are quite surprising, e.g. the policy initialization scheme signiﬁcantly inﬂuences the
performance while it is rarely even mentioned in RL publications. In particular, we have found that
initializing the network so that the initial action distribution has zero mean, a rather low standard
deviation and is independent of the observation signiﬁcantly improves the training speed (Sec. 3.2).
The rest of of this paper is structured as follows: We describe our experimental setup and performance
metrics used in Sec. 2. Then, in Sec. 3 we present and analyse the experimental results and ﬁnish
with related work in Sec. 4 and conclusions in Sec. 5. The appendices contain the detailed description
of all design choices we experiment with (App. B), default hyperparameters (App. C) and the raw
experimental results (App. D - K).
2
Study design
Considered setting.
In this paper, we consider the setting of on-policy reinforcement learning for
continuous control. We deﬁne on-policy learning in the following loose sense: We consider policy
iteration algorithms that iterate between generating experience using the current policy and using
the experience to improve the policy. This is the standard modus operandi of algorithms usually
considered on-policy such as PPO [17]. However, we note that algorithms often perform several
model updates and thus may operate technically on off-policy data within a single policy improvement
iteration. As benchmark environments, we consider ﬁve widely used continuous control environments
from OpenAI Gym [12] of varying complexity: Hopper-v1, Walker2d-v1, HalfCheetah-v1, Ant-v1,
and Humanoid-v1 1.
Uniﬁed on-policy learning algorithm.
We took the following approach to create a highly conﬁg-
urable uniﬁed on-policy learning algorithm with as many choices as possible:
1. We researched prior work and popular code bases to make a list of commonly used choices,
i.e., different loss functions (both for value functions and policies), architectural choices such
as initialization methods, heuristic tricks such as gradient clipping and all their corresponding
hyperparameters.
2. Based on this, we implemented a single, uniﬁed on-policy agent and corresponding training
protocol starting from the SEED RL code base [28]. Whenever we were faced with implementation
decisions that required us to take decisions that could not be clearly motivated or had alternative
solutions, we further added such decisions as additional choices.
3. We veriﬁed that when all choices are selected as in the PPO implementation from OpenAI
baselines, we obtain similar performance as reported in the PPO paper [17]. We chose PPO
because it is probably the most commonly used on-policy RL algorithm at the moment.
The resulting agent implementation is detailed in Appendix B. The key property is that the implemen-
tation exposes all choices as conﬁguration options in an uniﬁed manner. For convenience, we mark
each of the choice in this paper with a number (e.g., C1) and a ﬁxed name (e.g. num_envs (C1))
that can be easily used to ﬁnd a description of the choice in Appendix B.
Difﬁculty of investigating choices.
The primary goal of this paper is to understand how the
different choices affect the ﬁnal performance of an agent and to derive recommendations for these
choices. There are two key reasons why this is challenging:
First, we are mainly interested in insights on choices for good hyperparameter conﬁgurations. Yet, if
all choices are sampled randomly, the performance is very bad and little (if any) training progress is
made. This may be explained by the presence of sub-optimal settings (e.g., hyperparameters of the
wrong scale) that prohibit learning at all. If there are many choices, the probability of such failure
increases exponentially.
1It has been noticed that the version of the Mujoco physics simulator [5] can slightly inﬂuence the behaviour
of some of the environments — https://github.com/openai/gym/issues/1541. We used Mujoco 2.0 in
our experiments.
2

Second, many choices may have strong interactions with other related choices, for example the
learning rate and the minibatch size. This means that such choices need to be tuned together and
experiments where only a single choice is varied but interacting choices are kept ﬁxed may be
misleading.
Basic experimental design.
To address these issues, we design a series of experiments as follows:
We create groups of choices around thematic groups where we suspect interactions between different
choices, for example we group together all choices related to neural network architecture. We also
include Adam learning rate (C24) in all of the groups as we suspect that it may interact with
many other choices.
Then, in each experiment, we train a large number of models where we randomly sample the choices
within the corresponding group 2. All other settings (for choices not in the group) are set to settings
of a competitive base conﬁguration (detailed in Appendix C) that is close to the default PPOv2
conﬁguration3 scaled up to 256 parallel environments. This has two effects: First, it ensures that our
set of trained models contains good models (as veriﬁed by performance statistics in the corresponding
results). Second, it guarantees that we have models that have different combinations of potentially
interacting choices.
We then consider two different analyses for each choice (e.g, for advantage_estimator (C6)):
Conditional 95th percentile: For each potential value of that choice (e.g., advantage_estimator
(C6) = N-Step), we look at the performance distribution of sampled conﬁgurations with that value.
We report the 95th percentile of the performance as well as a conﬁdence interval based on a binomial
approximation 4. Intuitively, this corresponds to a robust estimate of the performance one can expect
if all other choices in the group were tuned with random search and a limited budget of roughly 20
hyperparameter conﬁgurations.
Distribution of choice within top 5% conﬁgurations. We further consider for each choice the
distribution of values among the top 5% conﬁgurations trained in that experiment. The reasoning is
as follows: By design of the experiment, values for each choice are distributed uniformly at random.
Thus, if certain values are over-represented in the top models, this indicates that the speciﬁc choice is
important in guaranteeing good performance.
Performance measures.
We employ the following way to compute performance: For each hyper-
parameter conﬁguration, we train 3 models with independent random seeds where each model is
trained for one million (Hopper, HalfCheetah, Walker2d) or two million environment steps (Ant,
Humanoid). We evaluate trained policies every hundred thousand steps by freezing the policy and
computing the average undiscounted episode return of 100 episodes (with the stochastic policy). We
then average these score to obtain a single performance score of the seed which is proportional to
the area under the learning curve. This ensures we assign higher scores to agents that learn quickly.
The performance score of a hyperparameter conﬁguration is ﬁnally set to the median performance
score across the 3 seeds. This reduces the impact of training noise, i.e., that certain seeds of the same
conﬁguration may train much better than others.
3
Experiments
We run experiments for eight thematic groups: Policy Losses (Sec. 3.1), Networks architecture
(Sec. 3.2), Normalization and clipping (Sec. 3.3), Advantage Estimation (Sec. 3.4), Training setup
(Sec. 3.5), Timesteps handling (Sec. 3.6), Optimizers (Sec. 3.7), and Regularization (Sec. 3.8). For
each group, we provide a full experimental design and full experimental plots in Appendices D - K
so that the reader can draw their own conclusions from the experimental results. In the following
sections, we provide short descriptions of the experiments, our interpretation of the results, as well as
practical recommendations for on-policy training for continuous control.
2Exact details for the different experiments are provided in Appendices D - K.
3https://github.com/openai/baselines/blob/master/baselines/ppo2/defaults.py
4We compute conﬁdence intervals with a signiﬁcance level of α = 5% as follows: We ﬁnd il = icdf
  α
2

and ih = icdf
 1 −α
2
 where icdf is the inverse cumulative density function of a binomial distribution with
p = 0.95 (as we consider the 95th percentile) and the number of draws equals the number of samples. We then
report the ilth and ihth highest scores as the conﬁdence interval.
3

3.1
Policy losses (based on the results in Appendix D)
Study description. We investigate different policy losses (C14): vanilla policy gradient (PG), V-trace
[19], PPO [17], AWR [33], V-MPO5 [34] and the limiting case of AWR (β →0) and V-MPO
(ϵn →0) which we call Repeat Positive Advantages (RPA) as it is equivalent to the negative log-
probability of actions with positive advantages. See App. B.3 for a detailed description of the different
losses. We further sweep the hyperparameters of each of the losses (C15, C16, C18, C17, C19), the
learning rate (C24) and the number of passes over the data (C3).
The goal of this study is to better understand the importance of the policy loss function in the on-policy
setting considered in this paper. The goal is not to provide a general statement that one of the losses
is better than the others as some of them were speciﬁcally designed for other settings (e.g., the V-trace
loss is targeted at near-on-policy data in a distributed setting).
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750 Hopper-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000Humanoid-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
HalfCheetah-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
Figure 1: Comparison of different policy losses (C14).
Interpretation. Fig. 1 shows the 95-th percentile of the average policy score during training for
different policy losses (C14). We observe that PPO performs better than the other losses on 4 out of 5
environments and is one of the top performing losses on HalfCheetah. As we randomly sample the
loss speciﬁc hyperparameters in this analysis, one might argue that our approach favours choices that
are not too sensitive to hyperparameters. At the same time, there might be losses that are sensitive
to their hyperparameters but for which good settings may be easily found. Fig. 5 shows that even
if we condition on choosing the optimal loss hyperparameters for each loss6, PPO still outperforms
the other losses on the two hardest tasks — Humanoid and Ant7 and is one of the top performing
losses on the other 3 tasks. Moreover, we show the empirical cumulative density functions of agent
performance conditioned on the policy loss used in Fig. 4. Perhaps unsurprisingly, PG and V-trace
perform worse on all tasks. This is likely caused by their inability to handle data that become
off-policy in one iteration, either due to multiple passes (C3) over experience (which can be seen
in Fig. 14) or a large experience buffer (C2) in relation to the batch size (C4). Overall, these results
show that trust-region optimization (preventing the current policy from diverging too much from the
behavioral one) which is present in all the other policy losses is crucial for good sample complexity.
For PPO and its clipping threshold ϵ (C16), we further observe that ϵ = 0.2 and ϵ = 0.3 perform
reasonably well in all environments but that lower (ϵ = 0.1) or higher (ϵ = 0.5) values give better
performance on some of the environments (See Fig. 10 and Fig. 32).
Recommendation. Use the PPO policy loss. Start with the clipping threshold set to 0.25 but also try
lower and higher values if possible.
3.2
Networks architecture (based on the results in Appendix E)
Study description. We investigate the impact of differences in the policy and value function neural
network architectures. We consider choices related to the network structure and size (C47, C48, C49,
C50, C51, C52, C52), activation functions (C55), and initialization of network weights (C56, C57,
5We used the V-MPO policy loss without the decoupled KL constraint as we investigate the effects of
different policy regularizers separately in Sec. 3.8.
6AWR loss has two hyperparameters — the temperature β (C18) and the weight clipping coefﬁcient ωmax
(C17). We only condition on β which is more important.
7These two tasks were not included in the original PPO paper [17] so the hyperparameters we use were not
tuned for them.
4

C58). We further include choices related to the standard deviation of actions (C59, C60, C61, C62)
and transformations of sampled actions (C63).
Interpretation. Separate value and policy networks (C47) appear to lead to better performance on
four out of ﬁve environments (Fig. 15). To avoid analyzing the other choices based on bad models,
we thus focus for the rest of this experiment only on agents with separate value and policy networks.
Regarding network sizes, the optimal width of the policy MLP depends on the complexity of the
environment (Fig. 18) and too low or too high values can cause signiﬁcant drop in performance while
for the value function there seems to be no downside in using wider networks (Fig. 21). Moreover,
on some environments it is beneﬁcial to make the value network wider than the policy one, e.g. on
HalfCheetah the best results are achieved with 16 −32 units per layer in the policy network and 256
in the value network. Two hidden layers appear to work well for policy (Fig. 22) and value networks
(Fig. 20) in all tested environments. As for activation functions, we observe that tanh activations
perform best and relu worst. (Fig. 30).
Interestingly, the initial policy appears to have a surprisingly high impact on the training performance.
The key recipe appears is to initialize the policy at the beginning of training so that the action
distribution is centered around 08 regardless of the observation and has a rather small standard
deviation. This can be achieved by initializing the policy MLP with smaller weights in the last layer
(C57, Fig. 24, this alone boosts the performance on Humanoid by 66%) so that the initial action
distribution is almost independent of the observation and by introducing an offset in the standard
deviation of actions (C61). Fig. 2 shows that the performance is very sensitive to the initial action
standard deviation with 0.5 performing best on all environments except Hopper where higher values
perform better.
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0
200
400
600
800
Walker2d-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
HalfCheetah-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
Figure 2: Comparison of different initial standard deviations of actions (C61).
Fig. 17 compares two approaches to transform unbounded sampled actions into the bounded [−1, 1]
domain expected by the environment (C63): clipping and applying a tanh function. tanh performs
slightly better overall (in particular it improves the performance on HalfCheetah by 30% ). Comparing
Fig. 17 and Fig. 2 suggests that the difference might be mostly caused by the decreased magnitude of
initial actions9.
Other choices appear to be less important: The scale of the last layer initialization matters much
less for the value MLP (C58) than for the policy MLP (Fig. 19). Apart from the last layer scaling,
the network initialization scheme (C56) does not matter too much (Fig. 27). Only he_normal and
he_uniform [7] appear to be suboptimal choices with the other options performing very similarly.
There also appears to be no clear beneﬁts if the standard deviation of the policy is learned for each
state (i.e. outputted by the policy network) or once globally for all states (C59, Fig. 23). For the
transformation of policy output into action standard deviation (C60), softplus and exponentiation
perform very similarly10 (Fig. 25). Finally, the minimum action standard deviation (C62) seems to
matter little, if it is not set too large (Fig. 30).
Recommendation. Initialize the last policy layer with 100× smaller weights. Use softplus to
transform network output into action standard deviation and add a (negative) offset to its input to
decrease the initial standard deviation of actions. Tune this offset if possible. Use tanh both as the
8All environments expect normalized actions in [−1, 1].
9tanh can also potentially perform better with entropy regularization (not used in this experiment) as it
bounds the maximum possible policy entropy.
10We noticed that some of the training runs with exponentiation resulted in NaNs but clipping the exponent
solves this issue (See Sec. B.8 for the details).
5

activation function (if the networks are not too deep) and to transform the samples from the normal
distribution to the bounded action space. Use a wide value MLP (no layers shared with the policy)
but tune the policy width (it might need to be narrower than the value MLP).
3.3
Normalization and clipping (based on the results in Appendix F)
Study description. We investigate the impact of different normalization techniques: observation
normalization (C64), value function normalization (C66), per-minibatch advantage normalization
(C67), as well as gradient (C68) and observation (C65) clipping.
Interpretation. Input normalization (C64) is crucial for good performance on all environments apart
from Hopper (Fig. 33). Quite surprisingly, value function normalization (C66) also inﬂuences the
performance very strongly — it is crucial for good performance on HalfCheetah and Humanoid,
helps slightly on Hopper and Ant and signiﬁcantly hurts the performance on Walker2d (Fig. 37). We
are not sure why the value function scale matters that much but suspect that it affects the performance
by changing the speed of the value function ﬁtting.11 In contrast to observation and value function
normalization, per-minibatch advantage normalization (C67) seems not to affect the performance
too much (Fig. 35). Similarly, we have found little evidence that clipping normalized12 observations
(C65) helps (Fig. 38) but it might be worth using if there is a risk of extremely high observations due
to simulator divergence. Finally, gradient clipping (C68) provides a small performance boost with the
exact clipping threshold making little difference (Fig. 34).
Recommendation. Always use observation normalization and check if value function normalization
improves performance. Gradient clipping might slightly help but is of secondary importance.
3.4
Advantage Estimation (based on the results in Appendix G)
Study description. We compare the most commonly used advantage estimators (C6): N-step
[3], GAE [9] and V-trace [19] and their hyperparameters (C7, C8, C9, C10). We also experiment
with applying PPO-style pessimistic clipping (C13) to the value loss (present in the original PPO
implementation but not mentioned in the PPO paper [17]) and using Huber loss [1] instead of MSE
for value learning (C11, C12). Moreover, we varied the number of parallel environments used (C1) as
it changes the length of the experience fragments collected in each step.
Interpretation. GAE and V-trace appear to perform better than N-step returns (Fig. 44 and 40) which
indicates that it is beneﬁcial to combine the value estimators from multiple timesteps. We have not
found a signiﬁcant performance difference between GAE and V-trace in our experiments. λ = 0.9
(C8, C9) performed well regardless of whether GAE (Fig. 45) or V-trace (Fig. 49) was used on all
tasks but tuning this value per environment may lead to modest performance gains. We have found
that PPO-style value loss clipping (C13) hurts the performance regardless of the clipping threshold13
(Fig. 43). Similarly, the Huber loss (C11) performed worse than MSE in all environments (Fig. 42)
regardless of the value of the threshold (C12) used (Fig. 48).
Recommendation. Use GAE with λ = 0.9 but neither Huber loss nor PPO-style value loss clipping.
3.5
Training setup (based on the results in Appendix H)
Study description. We investigate choices related to the data collection and minibatch handling: the
number of parallel environments used (C1), the number of transitions gathered in each iteration (C2),
the number of passes over the data (C3), minibatch size (C4) and how the data is split into minibatches
(C5).
For the last choice, in addition to standard choices, we also consider a new small modiﬁcation of
the original PPO approach: The original PPO implementation splits the data in each policy iteration
step into individual transitions and then randomly assigns them to minibatches (C5). This makes it
11Another explanation could be the interaction between the value function normalization and PPO-style value
clipping (C13). We have, however, disable the value clipping in this experiment to avoid this interaction. The
disabling of the value clipping could also explain why our conclusions are different from [27] where a form of
value normalization improved the performance on Walker.
12We only applied clipping if input normalization was enabled.
13This is consistent with prior work [27].
6

impossible to compute advantages as the temporal structure is broken. Therefore, the advantages are
computed once at the beginning of each policy iteration step and then used in minibatch policy and
value function optimization. This results in higher diversity of data in each minibatch at the cost of
using slightly stale advantage estimations. As a remedy to this problem, we propose to recompute the
advantages at the beginning of each pass over the data instead of just once per iteration.
Results. Unsurprisingly, going over the experience multiple times appears to be crucial for good sam-
ple complexity (Fig. 54). Often, this is computationally cheap due to the simple models considered,
in particular on machines with accelerators such as GPUs and TPUs. As we increase the number of
parallel environments (C1), performance decreases sharply on some of the environments (Fig. 55).
This is likely caused by shortened experience chunks (See Sec. B.1 for the detailed description
of the data collection process) and earlier value bootstrapping. Despite that, training with more
environments usually leads to faster training in wall-clock time if enough CPU cores are available.
Increasing the batch size (C4) does not appear to hurt the sample complexity in the range we tested
(Fig. 57) which suggests that it should be increased for faster iteration speed. On the other hand, the
number of transitions gathered in each iteration (C2) inﬂuences the performance quite signiﬁcantly
(Fig. 52). Finally, we compare different ways to handle minibatches (See Sec. B.1 for the detailed
description of different variants) in Fig. 53 and 58. The plots suggest that stale advantages can in fact
hurt performance and that recomputing them at the beginning of each pass at least partially mitigates
the problem and performs best among all variants.
Recommendation. Go over experience multiple times. Shufﬂe individual transitions before assigning
them to minibatches and recompute advantages once per data pass (See App. B.1 for the details).
For faster wall-clock time training use many parallel environments and increase the batch size (both
might hurt the sample complexity). Tune the number of transitions in each iteration (C2) if possible.
3.6
Timesteps handling (based on the results in Appendix I)
Study description. We investigate choices related to the handling of timesteps: discount fac-
tor14 (C20), frame skip (C21), and how episode termination due to timestep limits are handled (C22).
The latter relates to a technical difﬁculty explained in App. B.4 where one assumes for the algorithm
an inﬁnite time horizon but then trains using a ﬁnite time horizon [16].
Interpretation. Fig. 60 shows that the performance depends heavily on the discount factor γ (C20)
with γ = 0.99 performing reasonably well in all environments. Skipping every other frame (C21)
improves the performance on 2 out of 5 environments (Fig. 61). Proper handling of episodes
abandoned due to the timestep limit seems not to affect the performance (C22, Fig. 62) which
is probably caused by the fact that the timestep limit is quite high (1000 transitions) in all the
environments we considered.
Recommendation. Discount factor γ is one of the most important hyperparameters and should be
tuned per environment (start with γ = 0.99). Try frame skip if possible. There is no need to handle
environments step limits in a special way for large step limits.
3.7
Optimizers (based on the results in Appendix J)
Study description. We investigate two gradient-based optimizers commonly used in RL: (C23) –
Adam [8] and RMSprop – as well as their hyperparameters (C24, C25, C26, C27, C28, C29, C30) and
a linear learning rate decay schedule (C31).
Interpretation. The differences in performance between the optimizers (C23) appear to be rather
small with no optimizer consistently outperforming the other across environments (Fig. 66). Unsur-
prisingly, the learning rate inﬂuences the performance very strongly (Fig. 69) with the default value
of 0.0003 for Adam (C24) performing well on all tasks. Fig. 67 shows that Adam works better with
momentum (C26). For RMSprop, momentum (C27) makes less difference (Fig. 71) but our results
suggest that it might slightly improve performance15. Whether the centered or uncentered version of
RMSprop is used (C30) makes no difference (Fig. 70) and similarly we did not ﬁnd any difference
14While the discount factor is sometimes treated as a part of the environment, we assume that the real goal is
to maximize undiscounted returns and the discount factor is a part of the algorithm which makes learning easier.
15Importantly, switching from no momentum to momentum 0.9 increases the RMSprop step size by approxi-
mately 10× and requires an appropriate adjustment to the learning rate (Fig. 74).
7

between different values of the ϵ coefﬁcients (C28, C29, Fig. 68 and 72). Linearly decaying the
learning rate to 0 increases the performance on 4 out of 5 tasks but the gains are very small apart
from Ant, where it leads to 15% higher scores (Fig. 65).
Recommendation. Use Adam [8] optimizer with momentum β1 = 0.9 and a tuned learning rate
(0.0003 is a safe default). Linearly decaying the learning rate may slightly improve performance but
is of secondary importance.
3.8
Regularization (based on the results in Appendix K)
Study description. We investigate different policy regularizers (C32), which can have either the
form of a penalty (C33, e.g. bonus for higher entropy) or a soft constraint (C34, e.g. entropy should
not be lower than some threshold) which is enforced with a Lagrange multiplier. In particular, we
consider the following regularization terms: entropy (C40, C46), the Kullback–Leibler divergence
(KL) between a reference N(0, 1) action distribution and the current policy (C37, C43) and the KL
divergence and reverse KL divergence between the current policy and the behavioral one (C35, C41,
C36, C42), as well as the “decoupled” KL divergence from [18, 34] (C38, C39, C44, C45).
Interpretation. We do not ﬁnd evidence that any of the investigated regularizers helps signiﬁcantly
on our environments with the exception of HalfCheetah on which all constraints (especially the
entropy constraint) help (Fig. 76 and 77). However, the performance boost is largely independent on
the constraint threshold (Fig. 83, 84, 87, 89, 90 and 91) which suggests that the effect is caused by the
initial high strength of the penalty (before it gets adjusted) and not by the desired constraint. While it
is a bit surprising that regularization does not help at all (apart from HalfCheetah), we conjecture that
regularization might be less important in our experiments because: (1) the PPO policy loss already
enforces the trust region which makes KL penalties or constraints redundant; and (2) the careful
policy initialization (See Sec. 3.2) is enough to guarantee good exploration and makes the entropy
bonus or constraint redundant.
4
Related Work
Islam et al. [15] and Henderson et al. [22] point out the reproducibility issues in RL including the
performance differences between different code bases, the importance of hyperparameter tuning
and the high level of stochasticity due to random seeds. Tucker et al. [26] showed that the gains,
which had been attributed to one of the recently proposed policy gradients improvements, were,
in fact, caused by the implementation details. The most closely related work to ours is probably
Engstrom et al. [27] where the authors investigate code-level improvements in the PPO [17] code
base and conclude that they are responsible for the most of the performance difference between PPO
and TRPO [10]. Our work is also similar to other large-scale studies done in other ﬁelds of Deep
Learning, e.g. model-based RL [31], GANs [24], NLP [35], disentangled representations [23] and
convolution network architectures [36].
5
Conclusions
In this paper, we investigated the importance of a broad set of high- and low-level choices that need
to be made when designing and implementing on-policy learning algorithms. Based on more than
250’000 experiments in ﬁve continuous control environments, we evaluate the impact of different
choices and provide practical recommendations. One of the surprising insights is that the initial action
distribution plays an important role in agent performance. We expect this to be a fruitful avenue for
future research.
References
[1]
Peter J Huber. “Robust estimation of a location parameter”. In: Breakthroughs in statistics.
Springer, 1992, pp. 492–518.
[2]
Ronald J Williams. “Simple statistical gradient-following algorithms for connectionist rein-
forcement learning”. In: Machine learning 8.3-4 (1992), pp. 229–256.
8

[3]
Richard S Sutton, Andrew G Barto, et al. Introduction to reinforcement learning. Vol. 135.
MIT press Cambridge, 1998.
[4]
Brian D Ziebart. “Modeling purposeful adaptive behavior with the principle of maximum
causal entropy”. In: (2010).
[5]
Emanuel Todorov, Tom Erez, and Yuval Tassa. “Mujoco: A physics engine for model-based
control”. In: 2012 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems.
IEEE. 2012, pp. 5026–5033.
[6]
Volodymyr Mnih et al. “Playing atari with deep reinforcement learning”. In: arXiv preprint
arXiv:1312.5602 (2013).
[7]
Kaiming He et al. “Delving deep into rectiﬁers: Surpassing human-level performance on
imagenet classiﬁcation”. In: Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer
vision. 2015, pp. 1026–1034.
[8]
Diederik P. Kingma and Jimmy Ba. “Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization”. In: 3rd
International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2015, San Diego, CA, USA, May
7-9, 2015, Conference Track Proceedings. 2015. URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6980.
[9]
John Schulman et al. “High-dimensional continuous control using generalized advantage
estimation”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.02438 (2015).
[10]
John Schulman et al. “Trust region policy optimization”. In: International conference on
machine learning. 2015, pp. 1889–1897.
[11]
Martin Abadi et al. “Tensorﬂow: A system for large-scale machine learning”. In: 12th
{USENIX} Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation ({OSDI} 16). 2016,
pp. 265–283.
[12]
Greg Brockman et al. “Openai gym”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.01540 (2016).
[13]
Timothy P Lillicrap et al. “Continuous control with deep reinforcement learning”. In: Interna-
tional Conference on Learning Representations. 2016.
[14]
Volodymyr Mnih et al. “Asynchronous methods for deep reinforcement learning”. In: Interna-
tional conference on machine learning. 2016, pp. 1928–1937.
[15]
Riashat Islam et al. “Reproducibility of benchmarked deep reinforcement learning tasks for
continuous control”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:1708.04133 (2017).
[16]
Fabio Pardo et al. “Time limits in reinforcement learning”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.00378
(2017).
[17]
John Schulman et al. “Proximal policy optimization algorithms”. In: arXiv preprint
arXiv:1707.06347 (2017).
[18]
Abbas Abdolmaleki et al. “Maximum a posteriori policy optimisation”. In: arXiv preprint
arXiv:1806.06920 (2018).
[19]
Lasse Espeholt et al. “IMPALA: Scalable Distributed Deep-RL with Importance Weighted
Actor-Learner Architectures”. In: International Conference on Machine Learning. 2018,
pp. 1406–1415.
[20]
Tuomas Haarnoja et al. “Soft actor-critic algorithms and applications”. In: arXiv preprint
arXiv:1812.05905 (2018).
[21]
Tuomas Haarnoja et al. “Soft Actor-Critic: Off-Policy Maximum Entropy Deep Reinforcement
Learning with a Stochastic Actor”. In: International Conference on Machine Learning. 2018,
pp. 1861–1870.
[22]
Peter Henderson et al. “Deep reinforcement learning that matters”. In: Thirty-Second AAAI
Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence. 2018.
[23]
Francesco Locatello et al. “Challenging common assumptions in the unsupervised learning of
disentangled representations”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.12359 (2018).
[24]
Mario Lucic et al. “Are gans created equal? a large-scale study”. In: Advances in neural
information processing systems. 2018, pp. 700–709.
[25]
M Andrychowicz OpenAI et al. “Learning dexterous in-hand manipulation”. In: arXiv preprint
arXiv:1808.00177 (2018).
[26]
George Tucker et al. “The mirage of action-dependent baselines in reinforcement learning”. In:
arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.10031 (2018).
[27]
Logan Engstrom et al. “Implementation Matters in Deep RL: A Case Study on PPO and
TRPO”. In: International Conference on Learning Representations. 2019.
9

[28]
Lasse Espeholt et al. “SEED RL: Scalable and Efﬁcient Deep-RL with Accelerated Central
Inference”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.06591 (2019).
[29]
Michael Janner et al. “When to trust your model: Model-based policy optimization”. In:
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. 2019, pp. 12498–12509.
[30]
Alex Kendall et al. “Learning to drive in a day”. In: 2019 International Conference on Robotics
and Automation (ICRA). IEEE. 2019, pp. 8248–8254.
[31]
Eric Langlois et al. “Benchmarking model-based reinforcement learning”. In: arXiv preprint
arXiv:1907.02057 (2019).
[32]
Ilge OpenAI et al. “Solving Rubik’s Cube with a Robot Hand”. In: arXiv preprint
arXiv:1910.07113 (2019).
[33]
Xue Bin Peng et al. “Advantage-Weighted Regression: Simple and Scalable Off-Policy Rein-
forcement Learning”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.00177 (2019).
[34]
H Francis Song et al. “V-MPO: On-Policy Maximum a Posteriori Policy Optimization for
Discrete and Continuous Control”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.12238 (2019).
[35]
Jared Kaplan et al. “Scaling laws for neural language models”. In: arXiv preprint
arXiv:2001.08361 (2020).
[36]
Ilija Radosavovic et al. “Designing Network Design Spaces”. In: arXiv preprint
arXiv:2003.13678 (2020).
10

A
Reinforcement Learning Background
We consider the standard reinforcement learning formalism consisting of an agent interacting with an environment.
To simplify the exposition we assume in this section that the environment is fully observable. An environment
is described by a set of states S, a set of actions A, a distribution of initial states p(s0), a reward function
r : S × A →R, transition probabilities p(st+1|st, at) (t is a timestep index explained later), termination
probabilities T(st, at) and a discount factor γ ∈[0, 1].
A policy π is a mapping from state to a distribution over actions. Every episode starts by sampling an initial state
s0. At every timestep t the agent produces an action based on the current state: at ∼π(·|st). In turn, the agent
receives a reward rt = r(st, at) and the environment’s state is updated. With probability T(st, at) the episode
is terminated, and otherwise the new environments state st+1 is sampled from p(·|st, at). The discounted sum
of future rewards, also referred to as the return, is deﬁned as Rt = P∞
i=t γi−tri. The agent’s goal is to ﬁnd the
policy π which maximizes the expected return Eπ[R0|s0], where the expectation is taken over the initial state
distribution, the policy, and environment transitions accordingly to the dynamics speciﬁed above. The Q-function
or action-value function of a given policy π is deﬁned as Qπ(st, at) = Eπ[Rt|st, at], while the V-function or
state-value function is deﬁned as V π(st) = Eπ[Rt|st]. The value Aπ(st, at) = Qπ(st, at) −V π(st) is called
the advantage and tells whether the action at is better or worse than an average action the policy π takes in the
state st.
In practice, the policies and value functions are going to be represented as neural networks. In particular, RL
algorithms we consider maintain two neural networks: one representing the current policy π and a value network
which approximates the value function of the current policy V ≈V π.
B
List of Investigated Choices
In this section we list all algorithmic choices which we consider in our experiments. See Sec. A for a very brief
introduction to RL and the notation we use in this section.
B.1
Data collection and optimization loop
RL algorithms interleave running the current policy in the environment with policy and value function networks
optimization. In particular, we create num_envs (C1) environments [14]. In each iteration, we run all
environments synchronously sampling actions from the current policy until we have gathered iteration_size
(C2) transitions total (this means that we have num_envs (C1) experience fragments, each consisting of
iteration_size (C2) / num_envs (C1) transitions). Then, we perform num_epochs (C3) epochs of
minibatch updates where in each epoch we split the data into minibatches of size batch_size (C4), and
performing gradient-based optimization [17]. Going over collected experience multiple times means that it is
not strictly an on-policy RL algorithm but it may increase the sample complexity of the algorithm at the cost of
more computationally expensive optimization step.
We consider four different variants of the above scheme (choice C5):
• Fixed trajectories: Each minibatch consists of full experience fragments and in each epoch we go over
exactly the same minibatches in the same order.
• Shuffle trajectories: Like Fixed trajectories but we randomly assign full experience fragments
to minibatches in each epoch.
• Shuffle transitions: We break experience fragments into individual transitions and assign them ran-
domly to minibatches in each epoch. This makes the estimation of advantages impossible in each minibatch
(most of the advantage estimators use future states, See App. B.2) so we precompute all advantages at the
beginning of each iteration using full experience fragments. This approach leads to higher diversity of data
in each minibatch at the price of somewhat stale advantage estimations. The original PPO implementation
from OpenAI Baselines16 works this way but this is not mentioned in the PPO paper [17].
• Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages): Like Shuffle transitions but we recompute
advantages at the beginning of each epoch.
B.2
Advantage estimation
Let V be an approximator of the value function of some policy, i.e. V ≈V π. We experimented with the three
most commonly used advantage estimators in on-policy RL (choice C6):
16https://github.com/openai/baselines/tree/master/baselines/ppo2
11

• N-step return [3] is deﬁned as
ˆV (N)
t
=
t+N−1
X
i=t
γi−tri + γNV (st+N) ≈V π(st).
The parameter N (choice C7) controls the bias–variance tradeoff of the estimator with bigger values resulting
in an estimator closer to empirical returns and having less bias and more variance. Given N-step returns we
can estimate advantages as follows:
ˆA(N)
t
= ˆV (N)
t
−V (st) ≈Aπ(st, at).
• Generalized Advantage Estimator, GAE(λ) [9] is a method that combines multi-step returns in the
following way:
ˆV GAE
t
= (1 −λ)
X
N>0
λN−1 ˆV (N)
t
≈V π(st),
where 0 < λ < 1 is a hyperparameter (choice C8) controlling the bias–variance trade-off. Using this, we
can estimate advantages with:
ˆAGAE
t
= ˆV GAE
t
−V (st) ≈Aπ(st, at).
It is possible to compute the values of this estimator for all states encountered in an episode in linear time [9].
• V-trace(λ, ¯c, ¯ρ) [19] is an extension of GAE which introduces truncated importance sampling weights to
account for the fact that the current policy might be slightly different from the policy which generated the
experience. It is parameterized by λ (choice C9) which serves the same role as in GAE and two parameters ¯c
and ¯ρ which are truncation thresholds for two different types of importance weights. See [19] for the detailed
description of the V-trace estimator. All experiments in the original paper [19] use ¯c = ¯ρ = 1. Similarly, we
only consider the case ¯c = ¯ρ, i.e., we consider a single choice V-Trace advantage c, ρ (C10).
The value network is trained by ﬁtting one of the returns described above with an MSE (quadratic) or a Huber
[1] loss (choice C11). Huber loss is a quadratic around zero up to some threshold (choice C12) at which point it
becomes a linear function.
The original PPO implementation [17] uses an additional pessimistic clipping in the value loss function. See
[27] for the description of this technique. It is parameterized by a clipping threshold (choice C13).
B.3
Policy losses
Let π denote the policy being optimized, and µ the behavioral policy, i.e. the policy which generated the
experience. Moreover, let ˆAπ
t and ˆ
Aµ
t be some estimators of the advantage at timestep t for the policies π and µ.
We consider optimizing the policy with the following policy losses (choice C14):
• Policy Gradients (PG) [2] with advantages: LPG = −log π(at|st) ˆAπ
t . It can be shown that if ˆAπ
t estimators
are unbiased, then ∇θLPG is an unbiased estimator of the gradient of the policy performance assuming that
experience was generated by the current policy π.
• V-trace [19]: L¯ρ
V-trace = sg(ρt)LPG, where ρt = min( π(at|st)
µ(at|st), ¯ρ) is a truncated importance weight, sg
is the stop_gradient operator17 and ¯ρ is a hyperparameter (choice C15). ∇θL¯ρ
V-trace is an unbiased
estimator of the gradient of the policy performance if ¯ρ = ∞regardless of the behavioural policyµ18.
• Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) [17]:
Lϵ
PPO = −min
π(at|st)
µ(at|st)
ˆAπ
t , clip
π(at|st)
µ(at|st),
1
1 + ϵ, 1 + ϵ

ˆAπ
t

,
where ϵ is a hyperparameter19 C16. This loss encourages the policy to take actions which are better than
average (have positive advantage) while clipping discourages bigger changes to the policy by limiting how
much can be gained by changing the policy on a particular data point.
• Advantage-Weighted Regression (AWR) [33]:
Lβ, ωmax
AWR
= −log π(at|st) min (exp(Aµ
t /β), ωmax) .
17Identity function with gradient zero.
18Assuming that advantage estimators are unbiased and µ(at|st) > 0 for all pairs (st, at) for which
π(at|st) > 0.
19The original PPO paper used 1 −ϵ instead 1/(1 + ϵ) as the lower bound for the clipping. Both variants are
used in practice and we have decided to use 1/(1 + ϵ) as it is more symmetric.
12

It can be shown that for ωmax = ∞(choice C17) it corresponds to an approximate optimization of the
policy π under a constraint of the form KL(π||µ) < ϵ where the KL bound ϵ depends on the exponentiation
temperature β (choice C18). Notice that in contrast to previous policy losses, AWR uses estimates of the
advantages for the behavioral policy (Aµ
t ) and not the current one (Aπ
t ). AWR was proposed mostly as an
off-policy RL algorithm.
• On-Policy Maximum a Posteriori Policy Optimization (V-MPO) [34]: This policy loss is the same as
AWR with the following differences: (1) exponentiation is replaced with the softmax operator and there
is no clipping with ωmax; (2) only samples with the top half advantages in each batch are used; (3) the
temperature β is treated as a Lagrange multiplier and adjusted automatically to keep a constraint on how
much the weights (i.e. softmax outputs) diverge from a uniform distribution with the constraint threshold ϵ
being a hyperparameter (choice C19). (4) A soft constraint on KL(µ||π) is added. In our experiments, we did
not treat this constraint as a part of the V-MPO policy loss as policy regularization is considered separately
(See Sec. B.6).
• Repeat Positive Advantages (RPA): LRPA = −log π(at|st)[At > 0]20. This is a new loss we introduce in
this paper. We choose this loss because it is the limiting case of AWR and V-MPO. In particular, Lβ, ωmax
AWR
converges to ωmaxLRPA for β →0 and for ϵ →0 V-MPO converges to RPA with [At > 0] replaced by only
taking the top half advantages in each batch21 (the two conditions become even more similar if advantage
normalization is used, See Sec. B.9).
B.4
Handling of timesteps
The most important hyperparameter controlling how timesteps are handled is the discount factor γ (choice C20).
Moreover, we consider the so-called frame skip22 (choice C21). Frame skip equal to n means that we modify
the environment by repeating each action outputted by the policy n times (unless the episode has terminated
in the meantime) and sum the received rewards. When using frame skip, we also adjust the discount factor
appropriately, i.e. we discount with γn instead of γ.
Many reinforcement learning environments (including the ones we use in our experiments) have step limits
which means that an episode is terminated after some ﬁxed number of steps (assuming it was not terminated
earlier for some other reason). Moreover, the number of remaining environment steps is not included in policy
observations which makes the environments non-Markovian and can potentially make learning harder [16].
We consider two ways to handle such abandoned episodes. We either treat the ﬁnal transition as any other
terminal transition, e.g. the value target for the last state is equal to the ﬁnal reward, or we take the fact that
we do not know what would happen if the episode was not terminated into account. In the latter case, we set
the advantage for the ﬁnal state to zero and its value target to the current value function. This also inﬂuences
the value targets for prior states as the value targets are computed recursively [9, 19]. We denote this choice by
Handle abandoned?
(C22).
B.5
Optimizers
We experiment with two most commonly used gradient-based optimizers in RL (choice C23): Adam [8] and
RMSProp.23 You can ﬁnd the description of the optimizers and their hyperparameters in the original publications.
For both optimizers, we sweep the learning rate (choices C24 and C25), momentum (choices C26 and C27) and
the ϵ parameters added for numerical stability (choice C28 and C29). Moreover, for RMSProp we consider both
centered and uncentered versions (choice C30). For their remaining hyperparameters, we use the default values
from TensorFlow [11], i.e. β2 = 0.999 for Adam and ρ = 0.1 for RMSProp. Finally, we allow a linear learning
rate schedule via the hyperparameter Learning rate decay (C31) which deﬁnes the terminal learning rate
as a fraction of the initial learning rate (i.e., 0.0 correspond to a decay to zero whereas 1.0 corresponds to no
decay).
B.6
Policy regularization
We consider three different modes for regularization (choice C32):
• No regularization: We apply no regularization.
• Penalty: we apply a regularizer R with ﬁxed strength, i.e., we add to the loss the term αR for some ﬁxed
coefﬁcient α which is a hyperparameter.
20[P] denotes the Iverson bracket, i.e. [P] = 1 if P is true and [P] = 0 otherwise.
21For ϵ →0, we have β →∞which results in softmax(Aµ
t /β) →1.
22While not too common in continuous control, this technique is standard in RL for Atari [6].
23RMSProp was proposed by Geoffrey Hinton in one of his Coursera lectures: http://www.cs.toronto.
edu/~tijmen/csc321/slides/lecture_slides_lec6.pdf
13

• Constraint: We impose a soft constraint of the form R < ϵ on the value of the regularizer where ϵ is a
hyperparameter. This can be achieved by treating α as a Lagrange multiplier. In this case, we optimize
the value of α > 0 together with the networks parameter by adding to the loss the term α · sg(ϵ −R),
where sg in the stop_gradient operator. In practice, we use the following parametrization α = exp(c ·
p) where p is a trainable parameter (initialized with 0) and c is a coefﬁcient controlling how fast α is
adjusted (we use c = 10 in all experiments). After each gradient step, we clip the value of p to the range
[log(10−6)/10, log(106)/10] to avoid extremely small and large values.
We consider a number of different policy regularizers both for penalty (choice C33) and constraint regularization
(choice C34):
• Entropy H(π(·|s)) — it encourages the policy to try diverse actions [4].
• KL(µ(·|s)||π(·|s)) — the Kullback–Leibler divergence between the behavioral and the current policy [10]
prevents the probability of taking a given action from decreasing too rapidly.
• KL(π(·|s)||µ(·|s)) — similar to the previous one but prevents too rapid increase of probabilities.
• KL(ref(·|s)||π(·|s)) where ref is some reference distribution. We use ref = N(0, 1) in all experiments.
This kind of regularization encourages the policy to try all possible actions.
• Decoupled KL(µ(·|s)||π(·|s)). For Gaussian distributions we can split KL(µ(·|s)||π(·|s)) into a term which
depends on the change in the mean of the distribution and another one which depends on the change in the
standard deviation: KL(µ(·|s)||π(·|s)) = KL(µ(·|s)||ζ(·|s))+KL(ζ(·|s)||π(·|s)) where ζ(·|s) is a Gaussian
distribution with same mean as µ(·|s) and the same standard deviation as π(·|s). Therefore, instead of using
KL(µ(·|s)||π(·|s)) directly, we can use two separate regularizers, KL(µ(·|s)||ζ(·|s)) and KL(ζ(·|s)||π(·|s)),
with different strengths. The soft constraint version of this regularizer in used in V-MPO24 [34] with the
threshold on KL(µ(·|s)||ζ(·|s)) being orders of magnitude lower than the one on KL(ζ(·|s)||π(·|s)).
While one could add any linear combination of the above terms to the loss, we have decided to only use a
single regularizer in each experiment. Overall, all these combinations of regularization modes and different
hyperparameters lead to the choices detailed in Table 1.
Table 1: Choices pertaining to regularization.
Choice
Name
C32
Regularization type
C33
Regularizer (in case of penalty)
C34
Regularizer (in case of constraint)
C35
Threshold for KL(µ||π)
C36
Threshold for KL(π||µ)
C37
Threshold for KL(ref||π)
C38
Threshold for mean in decoupled KL(µ||π)
C39
Threshold for std in decoupled KL(µ||π)
C40
Threshold for entropy H(π)
C41
Regularizer coefficient for KL(µ||π)
C42
Regularizer coefficient for KL(π||µ)
C43
Regularizer coefficient for KL(ref||π)
C44
Regularizer coefficient for mean in decoupled KL(µ||π)
C45
Regularizer coefficient for std in decoupled KL(µ||π)
C46
Regularizer coefficient for entropy
B.7
Neural network architecture
We use multilayer perceptrons (MLPs) to represent policies and value functions. We either use separate networks
for the policy and value function, or use a single network with two linear heads, one for the policy and one
for the value function (choice C47). We consider different widths for the shared MLP (choice C48), the policy
MLP (choice C49) and the value MLP (choice C50) as well as different depths for the shared MLP (choice C51),
the policy MLP (choice C52) and the value MLP (choice C53). If we use the shared MLP, we further add a
hyperparameter Baseline cost (shared) (C54) that rescales the contribution of the value loss to the full
24The current arXiv version of the V-MPO paper [34] incorrectly uses the standard deviation of the old policy
instead of the new one in the deﬁnition of KL(µ(·|s)||π(·|s)) which leads to a slightly different decomposition.
We do not expect this to make any difference in practice.
14

objective function. This is important in this case as the shared layers of the MLP affect the loss terms related
to both the policy and the value function. We further consider different activation functions (choice C55) and
different neural network initializers (choice C56). For the initialization of both the last layer in the policy MLP
/ the policy head (choice C57) and the last layer in the value MLP / the value head (choice C58), we further
consider a hyperparameter that rescales the network weights of these layers after initialization.
B.8
Action distribution parameterization
A policy is a mapping from states to distributions of actions. In practice, a parametric distribution is chosen and
the policy output is treated as the distribution parameters. The vast majority of RL applications in continuous
control use a Gaussian distribution to represent the action distribution and this is also the approach we take.
This, however, still leaves a few decisions which need to be make in the implementation:
• Should the standard deviation of actions be a part of the network output (used e.g. in [21]) or should it be
independent of inputs like in [17] (choice C59)? In the latter case, the standard deviation is still learnable
but it is the same for each state.
• Gaussian distributions are parameterized with a mean and a standard deviation which has to be non-negative.
What function should be used to transform network outputs which can be negative into the standard deviation
(choice C60)? We consider exponentiation25 (used e.g. in [17]) and the softplus26 function (used e.g.
in [29]).
• What should be the initial standard deviation of the action distribution (choice C61)? We can control it by
adding some ﬁxed value to the input to the function computing the standard deviation (e.g. softplus).
• Should we add a small value to the standard deviation to avoid very low values (choice C62)?
• Most continuous control environments expect actions from a bounded range (often [−1, 1]) but the com-
monly used Gaussian distribution can produce values of an arbitrary magnitude. We consider two approaches
to handle this (choice C63): The easiest solution is to just clip the action to the allowed range when sending
it to the environment (used e.g. in [17]). Another approach is to apply the tanh function to the distribution
to bound the range of actions (used e.g. in [25]). This additional transformation changes the density of
actions — if action u is parameterized as u = tanh(x), where x is a sample from a Gaussian distribution
with probability density function pθ, than the density of u is log pu(u) = log pθ(x) −log tanh′(x), where
x = tanh−1(u). This additional log tanh′(x) term does not affect policy losses because they only use
∇θ log pu(u) = ∇θ log pθ(x). Similarly, this term does not affect the KL divergences which may be
used for regularization (See Sec. B.6) because the KL divergence has a form of the difference of two
log-probabilities on the same sample and the two log tanh′(x) terms cancel out.27 The only place where the
log tanh′(x) term affects the policy gradient computation and should be included is the entropy regular-
ization as H(U) = −Eu log pu(u) = Ex[−log pθ(x) + log tanh′(x)]. This additional log tanh′(x) term
penalizies the policy for taking extreme actions which prevents tanh saturation and the loss of the gradient.
Moreover, it prevents the action entropy from becoming unbounded.
To sum up, we parameterize the actions distribution as
Tu(N(xµ, Tρ(xρ + cρ) + ϵρ)),
where
• xµ is a part of the policy network output,
• xρ is either a part of the policy network output or a separate learnable parameter (one per action dimension),
• ϵρ (C62) is a hyperparameter controlling minimal standard deviation,
• Tρ (C60) is a standard deviation transformation (R →R≥0),
• Tu (C63) is an action transformation (R →[−1, 1]),
• cρ is a constant controlling the initial standard deviation and computed as cρ = T −1
ρ
(iρ −ϵρ) where iρ is
the desired initial standard deviation (C61).
25For numerical stability, we clip the exponent to the range [−15, 15]. Notice that due to clipping this function
has zero derivative outside of the range [−15, 15] which is undesirable. Therefore, we use a “custom gradient”
for the clipping function, namely we assume that it has derivative equal 1 everywhere.
26softplus(x) = log(ex + 1)
27KL(U1, U2) = Eu←U1 log U1(u) −log U2(u) = Ex←X1(log X1(x) −log tanh′(x)) −(log X2(x) −
log tanh′(x)) = Ex←X1 log X1(x) −log X2(x) = KL(X1||X2).
15

B.9
Data normalization and clipping
While it is not always mentioned in RL publications, many RL implementations perform different types of data
normalization. In particular, we consider the following:
• Observation normalization (choice C64). If enabled, we keep the empirical mean oµ and standard deviation
oρ of each observation coordinate (based on all observations seen so far) and normalize observations by
subtracting the empirical mean and dividing by max(oρ, 10−6). This results in all neural networks inputs
having approximately zero mean and standard deviation equal to one. Moreover, we optionally clip the
normalized observations to the range [−omax, omax] where omax is a hyperparameter (choice C65).
• Value function normalization (choice C66). Similarly to observations, we also maintain the empirical
mean vµ and standard deviation vρ of value function targets (See Sec. B.2). The value function network
predicts normalized targets ( ˆV −vµ)/ max(vρ, 10−6) and its outputs are denormalized accordingly to
obtain predicted values: ˆV = vµ + Vout max(vρ, 10−6) where Vout is the value network output.
• Per minibatch advantage normalization (choice C67). We normalize advantages in each minibatch by
subtracting their mean and dividing by their standard deviation for the policy loss.
• Gradient clipping (choice C68). We rescale the gradient before feeding it to the optimizer so that its L2
norm does not exceed the desired threshold.
16

C
Default settings for experiments
Table 2 shows the default conﬁguration used for all the experiments in this paper. We only list sub-choices that
are active (e.g. we use the PPO loss so we do not list hyperparameters associated with different policy losses).
Table 2: Default settings used in experiments.
Choice
Name
Default value
C1
num_envs
256
C2
iteration_size
2048
C3
num_epochs
10
C4
batch_size
64
C5
batch_mode
Shuffle transitions
C6
advantage_estimator
GAE
C8
GAE λ
0.95
C11
Value function loss
MSE
C13
PPO-style value clipping ϵ
0.2
C14
Policy loss
PPO
C16
PPO ϵ
0.2
C20
Discount factor γ
0.99
C21
Frame skip
1
C22
Handle abandoned?
False
C23
Optimizer
Adam
C24
Adam learning rate
3e-4
C26
Adam momentum
0.9
C28
Adam ϵ
1e-7
C31
Learning rate decay
0.0
C32
Regularization type
None
C47
Shared MLPs?
Shared
C49
Policy MLP width
64
C50
Value MLP width
64
C52
Policy MLP depth
2
C53
Value MLP depth
2
C55
Activation
tanh
C56
Initializer
Orthogonal with gain 1.41
C57
Last policy layer scaling
0.01
C58
Last value layer scaling
1.0
C59
Global standard deviation?
True
C60
Standard deviation transformation Tρ
safe_exp
C61
Initial standard deviation iρ
1.0
C63
Action transformation Tu
clip
C62
Minimum standard deviation ϵρ
1e-3
C64
Input normalization
Average
C65
Input clipping
10.0
C66
Value function normalization
Average
C67
Per minibatch advantage normalization
False
C68
Gradient clipping
0.5
17

D
Experiment Policy Losses
D.1
Design
For each of the 5 environments, we sampled 2000 choice conﬁgurations where we sampled the following choices
independently and uniformly from the following ranges:
• num_epochs (C3): {1, 3, 10}
• Policy loss (C14): {AWR, PG, PPO, RPA, V-MPO, V-Trace}
– For the case “Policy loss (C14) = AWR”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* AWR β (C18): {0.0001, 0.0003, 0.001, 0.003, 0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3}
* AWR ωmax (C17): {1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.5}
– For the case “Policy loss (C14) = PPO”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* PPO ϵ (C16): {0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.5}
– For the case “Policy loss (C14) = V-MPO”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* V-MPO ϵn (C19): {0.0001, 0.0003, 0.001, 0.003, 0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0}
– For the case “Policy loss (C14) = V-Trace”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* V-Trace loss ρ (C15): {1.0, 1.2, 1.5, 2.0}
• Adam learning rate (C24): {3e-05, 0.0001, 0.0003, 0.001, 0.003}
All the other choices were set to the default values as described in Appendix C.
For each of the sampled choice conﬁgurations, we train 3 agents with different random seeds and compute the
performance metric as described in Section 2.
D.2
Results
We report aggregate statistics of the experiment in Table 3 as well as training curves in Figure 3. For each of the
investigated choices in this experiment, we further provide a per-choice analysis in Figures 5-13.
Table 3: Performance quantiles across choice conﬁgurations.
Ant-v1
HalfCheetah-v1
Hopper-v1
Humanoid-v1
Walker2d-v1
90th percentile
1490
994
1103
1224
459
95th percentile
1727
1080
1297
1630
565
99th percentile
2290
1363
1621
2611
869
Max
2862
2048
1901
3435
1351
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Hopper-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Humanoid-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Walker2d-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
500
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
Ant-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
Figure 3: Training curves.
18

0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Hopper-v1 (max=1901)
AWR
PG
PPO
V-MPO
V-Trace
RPA
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Humanoid-v1 (max=3435)
AWR
PG
PPO
V-MPO
V-Trace
RPA
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Walker2d-v1 (max=1351)
AWR
PG
PPO
V-MPO
V-Trace
RPA
1.0
0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
HalfCheetah-v1 (max=2048)
AWR
PG
PPO
V-MPO
V-Trace
RPA
1.00
0.75
0.50
0.25
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Ant-v1 (max=2862)
AWR
PG
PPO
V-MPO
V-Trace
RPA
Figure 4: Empirical cumulative density functions of agent performance conditioned on different
values of Policy loss (C14). The x axis denotes performance rescaled so that 0 corresponds to a
random policy and 1 to the best found conﬁguration, and the y axis denotes the quantile.
AWR_0.0001
AWR_0.0003
AWR_0.001
AWR_0.003
AWR_0.01
AWR_0.03
AWR_0.1
AWR_0.3
PG
 
PPO_0.1
PPO_0.2
PPO_0.3
PPO_0.5
  
RPA
   
V-MPO_0.0001
V-MPO_0.0003
V-MPO_0.001
V-MPO_0.003
V-MPO_0.01
V-MPO_0.03
V-MPO_0.1
V-MPO_0.3
V-MPO_1.0
    
V-Trace_1.0
V-Trace_1.2
V-Trace_1.5
V-Trace_2.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
AWR_0.0001
AWR_0.0003
AWR_0.001
AWR_0.003
AWR_0.01
AWR_0.03
AWR_0.1
AWR_0.3
PG
 
PPO_0.1
PPO_0.2
PPO_0.3
PPO_0.5
  
RPA
   
V-MPO_0.0001
V-MPO_0.0003
V-MPO_0.001
V-MPO_0.003
V-MPO_0.01
V-MPO_0.03
V-MPO_0.1
V-MPO_0.3
V-MPO_1.0
    
V-Trace_1.0
V-Trace_1.2
V-Trace_1.5
V-Trace_2.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
Humanoid-v1
AWR_0.0001
AWR_0.0003
AWR_0.001
AWR_0.003
AWR_0.01
AWR_0.03
AWR_0.1
AWR_0.3
PG
 
PPO_0.1
PPO_0.2
PPO_0.3
PPO_0.5
  
RPA
   
V-MPO_0.0001
V-MPO_0.0003
V-MPO_0.001
V-MPO_0.003
V-MPO_0.01
V-MPO_0.03
V-MPO_0.1
V-MPO_0.3
V-MPO_1.0
    
V-Trace_1.0
V-Trace_1.2
V-Trace_1.5
V-Trace_2.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
Walker2d-v1
AWR_0.0001
AWR_0.0003
AWR_0.001
AWR_0.003
AWR_0.01
AWR_0.03
AWR_0.1
AWR_0.3
PG
 
PPO_0.1
PPO_0.2
PPO_0.3
PPO_0.5
  
RPA
   
V-MPO_0.0001
V-MPO_0.0003
V-MPO_0.001
V-MPO_0.003
V-MPO_0.01
V-MPO_0.03
V-MPO_0.1
V-MPO_0.3
V-MPO_1.0
    
V-Trace_1.0
V-Trace_1.2
V-Trace_1.5
V-Trace_2.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
AWR_0.0001
AWR_0.0003
AWR_0.001
AWR_0.003
AWR_0.01
AWR_0.03
AWR_0.1
AWR_0.3
PG
 
PPO_0.1
PPO_0.2
PPO_0.3
PPO_0.5
  
RPA
   
V-MPO_0.0001
V-MPO_0.0003
V-MPO_0.001
V-MPO_0.003
V-MPO_0.01
V-MPO_0.03
V-MPO_0.1
V-MPO_0.3
V-MPO_1.0
    
V-Trace_1.0
V-Trace_1.2
V-Trace_1.5
V-Trace_2.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
Figure 5: Comparison of 95th percentile of the performance of different policy losses conditioned on
their hyperparameters.
1
3
10
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600 Hopper-v1
1
3
10
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Humanoid-v1
1
3
10
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
Walker2d-v1
1
3
10
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
HalfCheetah-v1
1
3
10
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Ant-v1
1
3
10
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Hopper-v1
1
3
10
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
1
3
10
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
1
3
10
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
1
3
10
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
1
3
10
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
all
Figure 6: Analysis of choice num_epochs (C3): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned
on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Hopper-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000Humanoid-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
HalfCheetah-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Hopper-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
Humanoid-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
HalfCheetah-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
AWR
PG
PPO
RPA
V-MPO
V-Trace
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 7: Analysis of choice Policy loss (C14): 95th percentile of performance scores condi-
tioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
19

1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Hopper-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000Humanoid-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Walker2d-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800HalfCheetah-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Ant-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Hopper-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40Humanoid-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
HalfCheetah-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Ant-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 8: Analysis of choice V-Trace loss ρ (C15): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
all
Figure 9: Analysis of choice Adam learning rate (C24): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
Humanoid-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
Walker2d-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7 Hopper-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Humanoid-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
HalfCheetah-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Ant-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
all
Figure 10: Analysis of choice PPO ϵ (C16): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned on
sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
HalfCheetah-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Ant-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Hopper-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Humanoid-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Walker2d-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
HalfCheetah-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Ant-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
0.12
0.14
0.16
all
Figure 11: Analysis of choice V-MPO ϵn (C19): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned
on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Hopper-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Humanoid-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Walker2d-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
HalfCheetah-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Hopper-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Humanoid-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
HalfCheetah-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Ant-v1
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
all
Figure 12: Analysis of choice AWR β (C18): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned on
sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
20

1.1
1.2
1.3
1.5
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Hopper-v1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.5
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Humanoid-v1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.5
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Walker2d-v1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.5
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
HalfCheetah-v1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.5
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.5
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Hopper-v1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.5
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Humanoid-v1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.5
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Walker2d-v1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.5
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
HalfCheetah-v1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.5
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Ant-v1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.5
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
all
Figure 13: Analysis of choice AWR ωmax (C17): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned
on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
21

0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
AWR
Hopper-v1
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Humanoid-v1
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Walker2d-v1
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
HalfCheetah-v1
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Ant-v1
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
PG
Hopper-v1
0
100
200
300
400
500
Humanoid-v1
0
50
100
150
200
250
Walker2d-v1
300
200
100
0
100
200
300
400
500
HalfCheetah-v1
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Ant-v1
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
1800
PPO
Hopper-v1
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
Humanoid-v1
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
Walker2d-v1
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
RPA
Hopper-v1
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Humanoid-v1
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
HalfCheetah-v1
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Ant-v1
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
V-MPO
Hopper-v1
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Humanoid-v1
0
200
400
600
800
Walker2d-v1
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
HalfCheetah-v1
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Ant-v1
1
3
10
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
V-Trace
Hopper-v1
1
3
10
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Humanoid-v1
1
3
10
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Walker2d-v1
1
3
10
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
HalfCheetah-v1
1
3
10
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Ant-v1
Figure 14: 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned on Policy loss (C14)(rows) and
num_epochs (C3)(bars).
22

E
Experiment Networks architecture
E.1
Design
For each of the 5 environments, we sampled 4000 choice conﬁgurations where we sampled the following choices
independently and uniformly from the following ranges:
• Action transformation Tu (C63): {clip, tanh}
• Last value layer scaling (C58): {0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1.0}
• Global standard deviation?
(C59): {False, True}
• Last policy layer scaling (C57): {0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1.0}
• Standard deviation transformation Tρ (C60): {exp, softplus}
• Initial standard deviation iρ (C61): {0.1, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0}
• Initializer (C56): {Glorot normal, Glorot uniform, He normal, He uniform, LeCun normal, LeCun
uniform, Orthogonal, Orthogonal(gain=1.41)}
• Shared MLPs?
(C47): {separate, shared}
– For the case “Shared MLPs?
(C47) = separate”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* Policy MLP width (C49): {16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512}
* Policy MLP depth (C52): {1, 2, 4, 8}
* Value MLP width (C50): {16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512}
* Value MLP depth (C53): {1, 2, 4, 8}
– For the case “Shared MLPs?
(C47) = shared”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* Shared MLP width (C48): {16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512}
* Shared MLP depth (C51): {1, 2, 4, 8}
* Baseline cost (shared) (C54): {0.001, 0.1, 1.0, 10.0, 100.0}
• Minimum standard deviation ϵρ (C62): {0.0, 0.01, 0.1}
• Adam learning rate (C24): {3e-05, 0.0001, 0.0003, 0.001}
• Activation (C55): {ELU, Leaky ReLU, ReLU, Sigmoid, Swish, Tanh}
All the other choices were set to the default values as described in Appendix C.
For each of the sampled choice conﬁgurations, we train 3 agents with different random seeds and compute the
performance metric as described in Section 2.
After running the experiment described above we noticed (Fig. 15) that separate policy and value function
networks (C47) perform better and we have rerun the experiment with only this variant present.
separate
shared
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
separate
shared
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000Humanoid-v1
separate
shared
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Walker2d-v1
separate
shared
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
separate
shared
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
separate
shared
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Hopper-v1
separate
shared
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Humanoid-v1
separate
shared
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
separate
shared
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
HalfCheetah-v1
separate
shared
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Ant-v1
separate
shared
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
all
Figure 15: Analysis of choice Shared MLPs?
(C47): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
E.2
Results
We report aggregate statistics of the experiment in Table 4 as well as training curves in Figure 16. For each of
the investigated choices in this experiment, we further provide a per-choice analysis in Figures 17-30.
23

Table 4: Performance quantiles across choice conﬁgurations.
Ant-v1
HalfCheetah-v1
Hopper-v1
Humanoid-v1
Walker2d-v1
90th percentile
2098
1513
1133
1817
528
95th percentile
2494
2120
1349
2382
637
99th percentile
3138
3031
1582
3202
934
Max
4112
4358
1875
3987
1265
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Hopper-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
Humanoid-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Walker2d-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
HalfCheetah-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Ant-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
Figure 16: Training curves.
clip
tanh
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
clip
tanh
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
clip
tanh
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
Walker2d-v1
clip
tanh
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
clip
tanh
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
clip
tanh
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Hopper-v1
clip
tanh
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Humanoid-v1
clip
tanh
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
clip
tanh
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
HalfCheetah-v1
clip
tanh
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
clip
tanh
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 17: Analysis of choice Action transformation Tu (C63): 95th percentile of perfor-
mance scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations
(right).
16
32
64
128
256
512
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
Walker2d-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Hopper-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
Humanoid-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0.000
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175
0.200
Walker2d-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
HalfCheetah-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Ant-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0.000
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175
0.200
all
Figure 18: Analysis of choice Policy MLP width (C49): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800 Walker2d-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30 Hopper-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30Humanoid-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Walker2d-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
HalfCheetah-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
Ant-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
all
Figure 19: Analysis of choice Last value layer scaling (C58): 95th percentile of perfor-
mance scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations
(right).
24

1
2
4
8
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
1
2
4
8
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
1
2
4
8
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800 Walker2d-v1
1
2
4
8
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
1
2
4
8
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
1
2
4
8
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Hopper-v1
1
2
4
8
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35Humanoid-v1
1
2
4
8
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
1
2
4
8
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
HalfCheetah-v1
1
2
4
8
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Ant-v1
1
2
4
8
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 20: Analysis of choice Value MLP depth (C53): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
16
32
64
128
256
512
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800 Walker2d-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0.000
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175
0.200
Hopper-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Humanoid-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Walker2d-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
HalfCheetah-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0.000
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175
0.200
Ant-v1
16
32
64
128
256
512
0.000
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175
0.200
all
Figure 21: Analysis of choice Value MLP width (C50): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
1
2
4
8
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
1
2
4
8
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000Humanoid-v1
1
2
4
8
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800 Walker2d-v1
1
2
4
8
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
1
2
4
8
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
1
2
4
8
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Hopper-v1
1
2
4
8
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40Humanoid-v1
1
2
4
8
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
1
2
4
8
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
HalfCheetah-v1
1
2
4
8
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Ant-v1
1
2
4
8
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
all
Figure 22: Analysis of choice Policy MLP depth (C52): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
False
True
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
False
True
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
False
True
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
Walker2d-v1
False
True
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
False
True
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Hopper-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Ant-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 23: Analysis of choice Global standard deviation?
(C59): 95th percentile of perfor-
mance scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations
(right).
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
Walker2d-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Hopper-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Humanoid-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Walker2d-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
HalfCheetah-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Ant-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 24: Analysis of choice Last policy layer scaling (C57): 95th percentile of perfor-
mance scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations
(right).
25

exp
softplus
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
exp
softplus
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
exp
softplus
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
Walker2d-v1
exp
softplus
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
exp
softplus
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
exp
softplus
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Hopper-v1
exp
softplus
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
exp
softplus
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
exp
softplus
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
exp
softplus
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
exp
softplus
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 25: Analysis of choice Standard deviation transformation Tρ (C60): 95th per-
centile of performance scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of
conﬁgurations (right).
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 26: Analysis of choice Adam learning rate (C24): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
Glorot normal
Glorot uniform
He normal
He uniform
LeCun normal
LeCun uniform
Orthogonal
Orthogonal(gain=1.41)
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
Glorot normal
Glorot uniform
He normal
He uniform
LeCun normal
LeCun uniform
Orthogonal
Orthogonal(gain=1.41)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
Glorot normal
Glorot uniform
He normal
He uniform
LeCun normal
LeCun uniform
Orthogonal
Orthogonal(gain=1.41)
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Walker2d-v1
Glorot normal
Glorot uniform
He normal
He uniform
LeCun normal
LeCun uniform
Orthogonal
Orthogonal(gain=1.41)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
Glorot normal
Glorot uniform
He normal
He uniform
LeCun normal
LeCun uniform
Orthogonal
Orthogonal(gain=1.41)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
Glorot normal
Glorot uniform
He normal
He uniform
LeCun normal
LeCun uniform
Orthogonal
Orthogonal(gain=1.41)
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
0.12
0.14
0.16
Hopper-v1
Glorot normal
Glorot uniform
He normal
He uniform
LeCun normal
LeCun uniform
Orthogonal
Orthogonal(gain=1.41)
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Humanoid-v1
Glorot normal
Glorot uniform
He normal
He uniform
LeCun normal
LeCun uniform
Orthogonal
Orthogonal(gain=1.41)
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
0.12
0.14
Walker2d-v1
Glorot normal
Glorot uniform
He normal
He uniform
LeCun normal
LeCun uniform
Orthogonal
Orthogonal(gain=1.41)
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
0.12
0.14
HalfCheetah-v1
Glorot normal
Glorot uniform
He normal
He uniform
LeCun normal
LeCun uniform
Orthogonal
Orthogonal(gain=1.41)
0.000
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175
Ant-v1
Glorot normal
Glorot uniform
He normal
He uniform
LeCun normal
LeCun uniform
Orthogonal
Orthogonal(gain=1.41)
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
0.12
0.14
all
Figure 27: Analysis of choice Initializer (C56): 95th percentile of performance scores condi-
tioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Walker2d-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
HalfCheetah-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Hopper-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Walker2d-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
HalfCheetah-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Ant-v1
0.1
0.5
1.0
2.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
all
Figure 28: Analysis of choice Initial standard deviation iρ (C61): 95th percentile of
performance scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations
(right).
0.0
0.01
0.1
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Hopper-v1
0.0
0.01
0.1
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
0.0
0.01
0.1
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
Walker2d-v1
0.0
0.01
0.1
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500HalfCheetah-v1
0.0
0.01
0.1
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
0.0
0.01
0.1
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Hopper-v1
0.0
0.01
0.1
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Humanoid-v1
0.0
0.01
0.1
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
0.0
0.01
0.1
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
HalfCheetah-v1
0.0
0.01
0.1
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Ant-v1
0.0
0.01
0.1
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
all
Figure 29: Analysis of choice Minimum standard deviation ϵρ (C62): 95th percentile of
performance scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations
(right).
26

ELU
Leaky ReLU
ReLU
Sigmoid
Swish
Tanh
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600 Hopper-v1
ELU
Leaky ReLU
ReLU
Sigmoid
Swish
Tanh
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
ELU
Leaky ReLU
ReLU
Sigmoid
Swish
Tanh
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Walker2d-v1
ELU
Leaky ReLU
ReLU
Sigmoid
Swish
Tanh
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
ELU
Leaky ReLU
ReLU
Sigmoid
Swish
Tanh
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
ELU
Leaky ReLU
ReLU
Sigmoid
Swish
Tanh
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Hopper-v1
ELU
Leaky ReLU
ReLU
Sigmoid
Swish
Tanh
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Humanoid-v1
ELU
Leaky ReLU
ReLU
Sigmoid
Swish
Tanh
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
Walker2d-v1
ELU
Leaky ReLU
ReLU
Sigmoid
Swish
Tanh
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
HalfCheetah-v1
ELU
Leaky ReLU
ReLU
Sigmoid
Swish
Tanh
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
Ant-v1
ELU
Leaky ReLU
ReLU
Sigmoid
Swish
Tanh
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 30: Analysis of choice Activation (C55): 95th percentile of performance scores condi-
tioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
27

F
Experiment Normalization and clipping
F.1
Design
For each of the 5 environments, we sampled 2000 choice conﬁgurations where we sampled the following choices
independently and uniformly from the following ranges:
• PPO ϵ (C16): {0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.5}
• Input normalization (C64): {Average, None}
– For the case “Input normalization (C64) = Average”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* Input clipping (C65): {1.0, 2.0, 5.0, 10.0, None}
• Gradient clipping (C68): {0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 5.0, None}
• Per minibatch advantage normalization (C67): {False, True}
• Adam learning rate (C24): {3e-05, 0.0001, 0.0003, 0.001}
• Value function normalization (C66): {Average, None}
All the other choices were set to the default values as described in Appendix C.
For each of the sampled choice conﬁgurations, we train 3 agents with different random seeds and compute the
performance metric as described in Section 2.
F.2
Results
We report aggregate statistics of the experiment in Table 5 as well as training curves in Figure 31. For each of
the investigated choices in this experiment, we further provide a per-choice analysis in Figures 32-38.
Table 5: Performance quantiles across choice conﬁgurations.
Ant-v1
HalfCheetah-v1
Hopper-v1
Humanoid-v1
Walker2d-v1
90th percentile
2058
1265
1533
1649
1143
95th percentile
2287
1716
1662
2165
1564
99th percentile
2662
2465
1809
3100
2031
Max
3333
3515
2074
3482
2371
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Hopper-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Humanoid-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
Walker2d-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
HalfCheetah-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
Ant-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
Figure 31: Training curves.
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Walker2d-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Hopper-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35Humanoid-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
HalfCheetah-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Ant-v1
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
all
Figure 32: Analysis of choice PPO ϵ (C16): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned on
choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
28

Average
None
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Hopper-v1
Average
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
Average
None
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Walker2d-v1
Average
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
Average
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
Average
None
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Hopper-v1
Average
None
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Humanoid-v1
Average
None
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Walker2d-v1
Average
None
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
HalfCheetah-v1
Average
None
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Ant-v1
Average
None
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
all
Figure 33: Analysis of choice Input normalization (C64): 95th percentile of performance
scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
0.5
1.0
2.0
5.0
None
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
0.5
1.0
2.0
5.0
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000Humanoid-v1
0.5
1.0
2.0
5.0
None
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Walker2d-v1
0.5
1.0
2.0
5.0
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
0.5
1.0
2.0
5.0
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
0.5
1.0
2.0
5.0
None
0.000
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175
0.200
Hopper-v1
0.5
1.0
2.0
5.0
None
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
Humanoid-v1
0.5
1.0
2.0
5.0
None
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
Walker2d-v1
0.5
1.0
2.0
5.0
None
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
HalfCheetah-v1
0.5
1.0
2.0
5.0
None
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Ant-v1
0.5
1.0
2.0
5.0
None
0.000
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175
0.200
0.225
all
Figure 34: Analysis of choice Gradient clipping (C68): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
False
True
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Hopper-v1
False
True
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
False
True
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Walker2d-v1
False
True
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
False
True
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Hopper-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6Humanoid-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 35: Analysis of choice Per minibatch advantage normalization (C67): 95th per-
centile of performance scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of
conﬁgurations (right).
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
all
Figure 36: Analysis of choice Adam learning rate (C24): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
Average
None
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
Average
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000Humanoid-v1
Average
None
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Walker2d-v1
Average
None
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
Average
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
Average
None
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7 Hopper-v1
Average
None
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Humanoid-v1
Average
None
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Walker2d-v1
Average
None
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
HalfCheetah-v1
Average
None
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Ant-v1
Average
None
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
all
Figure 37: Analysis of choice Value function normalization (C66): 95th percentile of per-
formance scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations
(right).
29

1.0
2.0
5.0
10.0
None
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
1.0
2.0
5.0
10.0
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
1.0
2.0
5.0
10.0
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Walker2d-v1
1.0
2.0
5.0
10.0
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
1.0
2.0
5.0
10.0
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
1.0
2.0
5.0
10.0
None
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Hopper-v1
1.0
2.0
5.0
10.0
None
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35Humanoid-v1
1.0
2.0
5.0
10.0
None
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
1.0
2.0
5.0
10.0
None
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
HalfCheetah-v1
1.0
2.0
5.0
10.0
None
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Ant-v1
1.0
2.0
5.0
10.0
None
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 38: Analysis of choice Input clipping (C65): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
30

G
Experiment Advantage Estimation
G.1
Design
For each of the 5 environments, we sampled 4000 choice conﬁgurations where we sampled the following choices
independently and uniformly from the following ranges:
• num_envs (C1): {64, 128, 256}
• Value function loss (C11): {Huber, MSE}
– For the case “Value function loss (C11) = Huber”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* Huber delta (C12): {0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1.0}
• PPO-style value clipping ϵ (C13): {0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1.0, None}
• advantage_estimator (C6): {GAE, N-step, V-Trace}
– For the case “advantage_estimator (C6) = GAE”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* GAE λ (C8): {0.8, 0.9, 0.95, 0.99}
– For the case “advantage_estimator (C6) = N-step”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* N-step N (C7): {1, 3, 10, 1000000}
– For the case “advantage_estimator (C6) = V-Trace”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* V-Trace advantage λ (C9): {0.8, 0.9, 0.95, 0.99, 1.0}
* V-Trace advantage c, ρ (C10): {1.0, 1.2, 1.5, 2.0}
• Adam learning rate (C24): {3e-05, 0.0001, 0.0003, 0.001, 0.003}
All the other choices were set to the default values as described in Appendix C.
For each of the sampled choice conﬁgurations, we train 3 agents with different random seeds and compute the
performance metric as described in Section 2.
G.2
Results
We report aggregate statistics of the experiment in Table 6 as well as training curves in Figure 39. For each of
the investigated choices in this experiment, we further provide a per-choice analysis in Figures 40-50.
Table 6: Performance quantiles across choice conﬁgurations.
Ant-v1
HalfCheetah-v1
Hopper-v1
Humanoid-v1
Walker2d-v1
90th percentile
1705
1128
1626
1922
947
95th percentile
2114
1535
1777
2374
1185
99th percentile
2781
2631
2001
3013
1697
Max
3775
3613
2215
3564
2309
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Hopper-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Humanoid-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Walker2d-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
HalfCheetah-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Ant-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
Figure 39: Training curves.
31

GAE_0.8
GAE_0.9
GAE_0.95
GAE_0.99
N-step_1
N-step_10
N-step_1000000
N-step_3
 
V-Trace_0.8
V-Trace_0.9
V-Trace_0.95
V-Trace_0.99
V-Trace_1.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Hopper-v1
GAE_0.8
GAE_0.9
GAE_0.95
GAE_0.99
N-step_1
N-step_10
N-step_1000000
N-step_3
 
V-Trace_0.8
V-Trace_0.9
V-Trace_0.95
V-Trace_0.99
V-Trace_1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
GAE_0.8
GAE_0.9
GAE_0.95
GAE_0.99
N-step_1
N-step_10
N-step_1000000
N-step_3
 
V-Trace_0.8
V-Trace_0.9
V-Trace_0.95
V-Trace_0.99
V-Trace_1.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Walker2d-v1
GAE_0.8
GAE_0.9
GAE_0.95
GAE_0.99
N-step_1
N-step_10
N-step_1000000
N-step_3
 
V-Trace_0.8
V-Trace_0.9
V-Trace_0.95
V-Trace_0.99
V-Trace_1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
GAE_0.8
GAE_0.9
GAE_0.95
GAE_0.99
N-step_1
N-step_10
N-step_1000000
N-step_3
 
V-Trace_0.8
V-Trace_0.9
V-Trace_0.95
V-Trace_0.99
V-Trace_1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
Figure 40: Comparison of 95th percentile of the performance of different advantage estimators
conditioned on their hyperparameters.
64
128
256
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000 Hopper-v1
64
128
256
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
64
128
256
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600 Walker2d-v1
64
128
256
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000HalfCheetah-v1
64
128
256
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Ant-v1
64
128
256
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Hopper-v1
64
128
256
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Humanoid-v1
64
128
256
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7Walker2d-v1
64
128
256
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
HalfCheetah-v1
64
128
256
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Ant-v1
64
128
256
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
all
Figure 41: Analysis of choice num_envs (C1): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned
on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
Huber
MSE
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
Huber
MSE
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
Huber
MSE
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400 Walker2d-v1
Huber
MSE
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
HalfCheetah-v1
Huber
MSE
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
Huber
MSE
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Hopper-v1
Huber
MSE
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7Humanoid-v1
Huber
MSE
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Walker2d-v1
Huber
MSE
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
Huber
MSE
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Ant-v1
Huber
MSE
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
all
Figure 42: Analysis of choice Value function loss (C11): 95th percentile of performance
scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
None
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Hopper-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000Humanoid-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
None
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Walker2d-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
None
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
None
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Hopper-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
None
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Humanoid-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
None
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Walker2d-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
None
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
None
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Ant-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
None
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
all
Figure 43: Analysis of choice PPO-style value clipping ϵ (C13): 95th percentile of perfor-
mance scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations
(right).
32

GAE
N-step
V-Trace
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
GAE
N-step
V-Trace
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
GAE
N-step
V-Trace
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Walker2d-v1
GAE
N-step
V-Trace
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
HalfCheetah-v1
GAE
N-step
V-Trace
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
GAE
N-step
V-Trace
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Hopper-v1
GAE
N-step
V-Trace
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Humanoid-v1
GAE
N-step
V-Trace
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
GAE
N-step
V-Trace
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
HalfCheetah-v1
GAE
N-step
V-Trace
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Ant-v1
GAE
N-step
V-Trace
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
all
Figure 44: Analysis of choice advantage_estimator (C6): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Hopper-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Walker2d-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500HalfCheetah-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40 Hopper-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Humanoid-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Walker2d-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
HalfCheetah-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Ant-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
all
Figure 45: Analysis of choice GAE λ (C8): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned on
sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 46: Analysis of choice Adam learning rate (C24): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
1
3
10
1000000
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Hopper-v1
1
3
10
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
1
3
10
1000000
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
Walker2d-v1
1
3
10
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500HalfCheetah-v1
1
3
10
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
1
3
10
1000000
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Hopper-v1
1
3
10
1000000
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Humanoid-v1
1
3
10
1000000
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Walker2d-v1
1
3
10
1000000
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
1
3
10
1000000
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Ant-v1
1
3
10
1000000
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
all
Figure 47: Analysis of choice N-step N (C7): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned
on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000 Hopper-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Walker2d-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Hopper-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
HalfCheetah-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
0.001
0.01
0.1
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
all
Figure 48: Analysis of choice Huber delta (C12): 95th percentile of performance scores condi-
tioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
33

0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
1.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Hopper-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
1.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Walker2d-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500HalfCheetah-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Hopper-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30Walker2d-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
HalfCheetah-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
0.8
0.9
0.95
0.99
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
all
Figure 49: Analysis of choice V-Trace advantage λ (C9): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000 Hopper-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Walker2d-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Hopper-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Humanoid-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
HalfCheetah-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Ant-v1
1.0
1.2
1.5
2.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 50: Analysis of choice V-Trace advantage c, ρ (C10): 95th percentile of performance
scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations
(right).
34

H
Experiment Training setup
H.1
Design
For each of the 5 environments, we sampled 2000 choice conﬁgurations where we sampled the following choices
independently and uniformly from the following ranges:
• iteration_size (C2): {512, 1024, 2048, 4096}
• batch_mode (C5):
{Fixed trajectories,
Shuffle trajectories,
Shuffle transitions,
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)}
• num_epochs (C3): {1, 3, 10}
• num_envs (C1): {64, 128, 256}
• Adam learning rate (C24): {3e-05, 0.0001, 0.0003, 0.001, 0.003}
• batch_size (C4): {64, 128, 256}
All the other choices were set to the default values as described in Appendix C.
For each of the sampled choice conﬁgurations, we train 3 agents with different random seeds and compute the
performance metric as described in Section 2.
H.2
Results
We report aggregate statistics of the experiment in Table 7 as well as training curves in Figure 51. For each of
the investigated choices in this experiment, we further provide a per-choice analysis in Figures 52-58.
Table 7: Performance quantiles across choice conﬁgurations.
Ant-v1
HalfCheetah-v1
Hopper-v1
Humanoid-v1
Walker2d-v1
90th percentile
2203
1316
1695
2310
1190
95th percentile
2484
1673
1853
2655
1431
99th percentile
2907
2665
2060
3014
1844
Max
3563
3693
2434
3502
2426
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Hopper-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Humanoid-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Walker2d-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
HalfCheetah-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Ant-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
Figure 51: Training curves.
512
1024
2048
4096
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Hopper-v1
512
1024
2048
4096
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
512
1024
2048
4096
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Walker2d-v1
512
1024
2048
4096
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500HalfCheetah-v1
512
1024
2048
4096
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
512
1024
2048
4096
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5 Hopper-v1
512
1024
2048
4096
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Humanoid-v1
512
1024
2048
4096
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Walker2d-v1
512
1024
2048
4096
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
HalfCheetah-v1
512
1024
2048
4096
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
512
1024
2048
4096
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 52: Analysis of choice iteration_size (C2): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
35

Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Hopper-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000Humanoid-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Walker2d-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Hopper-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Humanoid-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
HalfCheetah-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Ant-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 53: Analysis of choice batch_mode (C5): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned
on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
1
3
10
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Hopper-v1
1
3
10
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000Humanoid-v1
1
3
10
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Walker2d-v1
1
3
10
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
1
3
10
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
1
3
10
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7 Hopper-v1
1
3
10
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5Humanoid-v1
1
3
10
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
1
3
10
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
1
3
10
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
1
3
10
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 54: Analysis of choice num_epochs (C3): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned
on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
64
128
256
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Hopper-v1
64
128
256
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
64
128
256
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Walker2d-v1
64
128
256
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
64
128
256
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
64
128
256
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Hopper-v1
64
128
256
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Humanoid-v1
64
128
256
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Walker2d-v1
64
128
256
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
HalfCheetah-v1
64
128
256
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Ant-v1
64
128
256
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
all
Figure 55: Analysis of choice num_envs (C1): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned
on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
all
Figure 56: Analysis of choice Adam learning rate (C24): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
64
128
256
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Hopper-v1
64
128
256
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
64
128
256
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Walker2d-v1
64
128
256
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
64
128
256
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
64
128
256
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Hopper-v1
64
128
256
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Humanoid-v1
64
128
256
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
64
128
256
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
HalfCheetah-v1
64
128
256
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
64
128
256
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
all
Figure 57: Analysis of choice batch_size (C4): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned
on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
36

Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Hopper-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
Walker2d-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Hopper-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Humanoid-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
HalfCheetah-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Ant-v1
Fixed trajectories
Shuffle trajectories
Shuffle transitions
Shuffle transitions (recompute advantages)
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
all
Figure 58: Analysis of choice batch_mode (C5): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned
on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations(right). In order to obtain
narrower conﬁdence intervals in this experiment we only sweep batch_mode (C5), num_envs
(C1), Adam learning rate (C24).
37

I
Experiment Time
I.1
Design
For each of the 5 environments, we sampled 2000 choice conﬁgurations where we sampled the following choices
independently and uniformly from the following ranges:
• Discount factor γ (C20): {0.95, 0.97, 0.99, 0.999}
• Frame skip (C21): {1, 2, 5}
• Handle abandoned?
(C22): {False, True}
• Adam learning rate (C24): {3e-05, 0.0001, 0.0003, 0.001}
All the other choices were set to the default values as described in Appendix C.
For each of the sampled choice conﬁgurations, we train 3 agents with different random seeds and compute the
performance metric as described in Section 2.
I.2
Results
We report aggregate statistics of the experiment in Table 8 as well as training curves in Figure 59. For each of
the investigated choices in this experiment, we further provide a per-choice analysis in Figures 60-63.
Table 8: Performance quantiles across choice conﬁgurations.
Ant-v1
HalfCheetah-v1
Hopper-v1
Humanoid-v1
Walker2d-v1
90th percentile
1462
1063
1243
1431
761
95th percentile
1654
1235
1675
2158
810
99th percentile
2220
1423
2204
2769
974
Max
2833
1918
2434
3106
1431
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
Hopper-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Humanoid-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Walker2d-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
Ant-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
Figure 59: Training curves.
0.95
0.97
0.99
0.999
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Hopper-v1
0.95
0.97
0.99
0.999
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
0.95
0.97
0.99
0.999
0
200
400
600
800
1000 Walker2d-v1
0.95
0.97
0.99
0.999
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
HalfCheetah-v1
0.95
0.97
0.99
0.999
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Ant-v1
0.95
0.97
0.99
0.999
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Hopper-v1
0.95
0.97
0.99
0.999
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
0.95
0.97
0.99
0.999
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Walker2d-v1
0.95
0.97
0.99
0.999
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
0.95
0.97
0.99
0.999
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
0.95
0.97
0.99
0.999
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 60: Analysis of choice Discount factor γ (C20): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
38

1
2
5
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Hopper-v1
1
2
5
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
1
2
5
0
200
400
600
800
Walker2d-v1
1
2
5
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
HalfCheetah-v1
1
2
5
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Ant-v1
1
2
5
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Hopper-v1
1
2
5
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Humanoid-v1
1
2
5
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Walker2d-v1
1
2
5
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
HalfCheetah-v1
1
2
5
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Ant-v1
1
2
5
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
all
Figure 61: Analysis of choice Frame skip (C21): 95th percentile of performance scores condi-
tioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
False
True
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
False
True
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500Humanoid-v1
False
True
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Walker2d-v1
False
True
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
HalfCheetah-v1
False
True
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Ant-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Hopper-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Walker2d-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 62: Analysis of choice Handle abandoned?
(C22): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
all
Figure 63: Analysis of choice Adam learning rate (C24): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
39

J
Experiment Optimizers
J.1
Design
For each of the 5 environments, we sampled 2000 choice conﬁgurations where we sampled the following choices
independently and uniformly from the following ranges:
• Learning rate decay (C31): {0.0, 1.0}
• Optimizer (C23): {Adam, RMSProp}
– For the case “Optimizer (C23) = Adam”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* Adam momentum (C26): {0.0, 0.9}
* Adam ϵ (C28): {1e-09, 1e-08, 1e-07, 1e-06, 1e-05, 0.0001}
* Adam learning rate (C24): {3e-05, 0.0001, 0.0003, 0.001}
– For the case “Optimizer (C23) = RMSProp”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* RMSProp centered?
(C30): {False, True}
* RMSProp momentum (C27): {0.0, 0.9}
* RMSProp ϵ (C29): {1e-09, 1e-08, 1e-07, 1e-06, 1e-05, 0.0001}
* RMSProp learning rate (C25): {3e-05, 0.0001, 0.0003, 0.001}
All the other choices were set to the default values as described in Appendix C.
For each of the sampled choice conﬁgurations, we train 3 agents with different random seeds and compute the
performance metric as described in Section 2.
J.2
Results
We report aggregate statistics of the experiment in Table 9 as well as training curves in Figure 64. For each of
the investigated choices in this experiment, we further provide a per-choice analysis in Figures 65-73.
Table 9: Performance quantiles across choice conﬁgurations.
Ant-v1
HalfCheetah-v1
Hopper-v1
Humanoid-v1
Walker2d-v1
90th percentile
2180
1085
1675
2549
712
95th percentile
2388
1124
1728
2726
797
99th percentile
2699
1520
1826
2976
1079
Max
2953
2532
1959
3332
1453
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Hopper-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Humanoid-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Walker2d-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
500
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
HalfCheetah-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Ant-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
Figure 64: Training curves.
0.0
1.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
0.0
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
0.0
1.0
0
200
400
600
800
Walker2d-v1
0.0
1.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200HalfCheetah-v1
0.0
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
0.0
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Hopper-v1
0.0
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Humanoid-v1
0.0
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6Walker2d-v1
0.0
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
HalfCheetah-v1
0.0
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
Ant-v1
0.0
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
all
Figure 65: Analysis of choice Learning rate decay (C31): 95th percentile of performance
scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
40

Adam
RMSProp
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
Adam
RMSProp
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000Humanoid-v1
Adam
RMSProp
0
200
400
600
800
Walker2d-v1
Adam
RMSProp
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
HalfCheetah-v1
Adam
RMSProp
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
Adam
RMSProp
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Hopper-v1
Adam
RMSProp
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Humanoid-v1
Adam
RMSProp
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Walker2d-v1
Adam
RMSProp
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
Adam
RMSProp
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Ant-v1
Adam
RMSProp
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 66: Analysis of choice Optimizer (C23): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned
on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
0.0
0.9
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
0.0
0.9
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
0.0
0.9
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
0.0
0.9
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200HalfCheetah-v1
0.0
0.9
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Hopper-v1
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6Humanoid-v1
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Walker2d-v1
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
HalfCheetah-v1
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
all
Figure 67: Analysis of choice Adam momentum (C26): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
Walker2d-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
HalfCheetah-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
Hopper-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30Humanoid-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Walker2d-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
HalfCheetah-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
Ant-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
all
Figure 68: Analysis of choice Adam ϵ (C28): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned on
sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 69: Analysis of choice Adam learning rate (C24): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
False
True
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
False
True
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000Humanoid-v1
False
True
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900 Walker2d-v1
False
True
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
HalfCheetah-v1
False
True
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Hopper-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
False
True
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 70: Analysis of choice RMSProp centered?
(C30): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
41

0.0
0.9
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
0.0
0.9
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000Humanoid-v1
0.0
0.9
0
200
400
600
800
Walker2d-v1
0.0
0.9
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
HalfCheetah-v1
0.0
0.9
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Hopper-v1
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
HalfCheetah-v1
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Ant-v1
0.0
0.9
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 71: Analysis of choice RMSProp momentum (C27): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200 Walker2d-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
HalfCheetah-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Hopper-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5Humanoid-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
Walker2d-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
HalfCheetah-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
Ant-v1
1e-09
1e-08
1e-07
1e-06
1e-05
0.0001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
all
Figure 72: Analysis of choice RMSProp ϵ (C29): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned
on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
200
400
600
800
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
all
Figure 73: Analysis of choice RMSProp learning rate (C25): 95th percentile of performance
scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations
(right).
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
0.0
Hopper-v1
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
Walker2d-v1
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
0.9
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
Figure 74: 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned on RMSProp momentum (C27)(rows)
and RMSProp learning rate (C25)(bars).
42

K
Experiment Regularizers
K.1
Design
For each of the 5 environments, we sampled 4000 choice conﬁgurations where we sampled the following choices
independently and uniformly from the following ranges:
• Regularization type (C32): {Constraint, No regularization, Penalty}
– For the case “Regularization type (C32) = Constraint”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* Regularizer (in case of constraint) (C34): {KL(µ||π), KL(π||µ), KL(ref||π), decou-
pled KL(µ||π), entropy}
⋄For the case “Regularizer (in case of constraint) (C34) = KL(µ||π)”, we further
sampled the sub-choices:
– Threshold for KL(µ||π) (C35): {0.005, 0.01, 0.02, 0.04, 0.08}
⋄For the case “Regularizer (in case of constraint) (C34) = KL(π||µ)”, we further
sampled the sub-choices:
– Threshold for KL(π||µ) (C36): {0.005, 0.01, 0.02, 0.04, 0.08}
⋄For the case “Regularizer (in case of constraint) (C34) = KL(ref||π)”, we further
sampled the sub-choices:
– Threshold for KL(ref||π) (C37): {10.0, 20.0, 40.0, 80.0, 160.0}
⋄For the case “Regularizer (in case of constraint) (C34) = decoupled KL(µ||π)”,
we further sampled the sub-choices:
– Threshold for mean in decoupled KL(µ||π) (C38):
{0.005, 0.01, 0.02, 0.04,
0.08}
– Threshold for std in decoupled KL(µ||π) (C39): {5e-05, 0.000125, 0.00025,
0.0005, 0.001, 0.002, 0.004}
⋄For the case “Regularizer (in case of constraint) (C34) = entropy”, we further
sampled the sub-choices:
– Threshold for entropy H(π) (C40): {0.0, -5.0, -10.0, -15.0}
– For the case “Regularization type (C32) = Penalty”, we further sampled the sub-choices:
* Regularizer (in case of penalty) (C33): {KL(µ||π), KL(π||µ), KL(ref||π), decoupled
KL(µ||π), entropy}
⋄For the case “Regularizer (in case of penalty) (C33) = KL(µ||π)”, we further sam-
pled the sub-choices:
– Regularizer coefficient for KL(µ||π) (C41): {0.003, 0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0}
⋄For the case “Regularizer (in case of penalty) (C33) = KL(π||µ)”, we further sam-
pled the sub-choices:
– Regularizer coefficient for KL(π||µ) (C42): {0.003, 0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0}
⋄For the case “Regularizer (in case of penalty) (C33) = KL(ref||π)”, we further
sampled the sub-choices:
– Regularizer coefficient for KL(ref||π) (C43): {3e-06, 1e-05, 3e-05, 0.0001,
0.0003, 0.001}
⋄For the case “Regularizer (in case of penalty) (C33) = decoupled KL(µ||π)”, we
further sampled the sub-choices:
– Regularizer coefficient for mean in decoupled KL(µ||π) (C44):
{0.003,
0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0}
– Regularizer coefficient for std in decoupled KL(µ||π) (C45):
{0.1, 0.3,
1.0, 3.0, 10.0, 30.0, 100.0, 300.0}
⋄For the case “Regularizer (in case of penalty) (C33) = entropy”, we further sampled
the sub-choices:
– Regularizer coefficient for entropy (C46): {1e-05, 3e-05, 0.0001, 0.0003,
0.001, 0.003}
• Adam learning rate (C24): {3e-05, 0.0001, 0.0003, 0.001, 0.003}
All the other choices were set to the default values as described in Appendix C.
For each of the sampled choice conﬁgurations, we train 3 agents with different random seeds and compute the
performance metric as described in Section 2.
K.2
Results
We report aggregate statistics of the experiment in Table 10 as well as training curves in Figure 75. For each of
the investigated choices in this experiment, we further provide a per-choice analysis in Figures 76-92.
43

Table 10: Performance quantiles across choice conﬁgurations.
Ant-v1
HalfCheetah-v1
Hopper-v1
Humanoid-v1
Walker2d-v1
90th percentile
2158
1477
1639
2624
705
95th percentile
2600
1870
1707
2832
814
99th percentile
2956
2413
1812
3071
1016
Max
3202
3156
1979
3348
1597
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Hopper-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Humanoid-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Walker2d-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
HalfCheetah-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
0
250000
500000
750000
1000000 1250000 1500000 1750000 2000000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
Ant-v1
Overall mean
top 10% mean
top 5% mean
top 1% mean
Figure 75: Training curves.
No regularization
constraint_KL(mu||pi)
constraint_KL(pi||mu)
constraint_KL(ref||pi)
constraint_decoupled KL(mu||pi)
constraint_entropy
 
penalty_KL(mu||pi)
penalty_KL(pi||mu)
penalty_KL(ref||pi)
penalty_decoupled KL(mu||pi)
penalty_entropy
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
No regularization
constraint_KL(mu||pi)
constraint_KL(pi||mu)
constraint_KL(ref||pi)
constraint_decoupled KL(mu||pi)
constraint_entropy
 
penalty_KL(mu||pi)
penalty_KL(pi||mu)
penalty_KL(ref||pi)
penalty_decoupled KL(mu||pi)
penalty_entropy
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
No regularization
constraint_KL(mu||pi)
constraint_KL(pi||mu)
constraint_KL(ref||pi)
constraint_decoupled KL(mu||pi)
constraint_entropy
 
penalty_KL(mu||pi)
penalty_KL(pi||mu)
penalty_KL(ref||pi)
penalty_decoupled KL(mu||pi)
penalty_entropy
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
No regularization
constraint_KL(mu||pi)
constraint_KL(pi||mu)
constraint_KL(ref||pi)
constraint_decoupled KL(mu||pi)
constraint_entropy
 
penalty_KL(mu||pi)
penalty_KL(pi||mu)
penalty_KL(ref||pi)
penalty_decoupled KL(mu||pi)
penalty_entropy
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
No regularization
constraint_KL(mu||pi)
constraint_KL(pi||mu)
constraint_KL(ref||pi)
constraint_decoupled KL(mu||pi)
constraint_entropy
 
penalty_KL(mu||pi)
penalty_KL(pi||mu)
penalty_KL(ref||pi)
penalty_decoupled KL(mu||pi)
penalty_entropy
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
Figure 76: Comparison of 95th percentile of the performance of different regularization approaches
conditioned on their type.
Constraint
No regularization
Penalty
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
Constraint
No regularization
Penalty
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
Constraint
No regularization
Penalty
0
200
400
600
800
Walker2d-v1
Constraint
No regularization
Penalty
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
Constraint
No regularization
Penalty
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
Constraint
No regularization
Penalty
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Hopper-v1
Constraint
No regularization
Penalty
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Humanoid-v1
Constraint
No regularization
Penalty
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Walker2d-v1
Constraint
No regularization
Penalty
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
HalfCheetah-v1
Constraint
No regularization
Penalty
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
Constraint
No regularization
Penalty
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
all
Figure 77: Analysis of choice Regularization type (C32): 95th percentile of performance
scores conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
44

KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0
200
400
600
800
Walker2d-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Hopper-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Humanoid-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35Walker2d-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
HalfCheetah-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
all
Figure 78: Analysis of choice Regularizer (in case of penalty) (C33): 95th percentile of
performance scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of
conﬁgurations (right).
3e-06
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
3e-06
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
3e-06
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
3e-06
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-06
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
3e-06
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40 Hopper-v1
3e-06
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
3e-06
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
3e-06
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-06
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
3e-06
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 79: Analysis of choice Regularizer coefficient for KL(ref||π) (C43): 95th per-
centile of performance scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top
5% of conﬁgurations (right).
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Hopper-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Humanoid-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Walker2d-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
HalfCheetah-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Ant-v1
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
all
Figure 80: Analysis of choice Adam learning rate (C24): 95th percentile of performance scores
conditioned on choice (left) and distribution of choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000 Hopper-v1
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45 Hopper-v1
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Humanoid-v1
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
HalfCheetah-v1
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
1e-05
3e-05
0.0001
0.0003
0.001
0.003
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
all
Figure 81: Analysis of choice Regularizer coefficient for entropy (C46): 95th percentile
of performance scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of
conﬁgurations (right).
45

KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000Humanoid-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35 Hopper-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Humanoid-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Ant-v1
KL(mu||pi)
KL(pi||mu)
KL(ref||pi)
decoupled KL(mu||pi)
entropy
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 82: Analysis of choice Regularizer (in case of constraint) (C34): 95th percentile
of performance scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of
conﬁgurations (right).
0.0
-5.0
-10.0
-15.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
0.0
-5.0
-10.0
-15.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
0.0
-5.0
-10.0
-15.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
Walker2d-v1
0.0
-5.0
-10.0
-15.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
HalfCheetah-v1
0.0
-5.0
-10.0
-15.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
0.0
-5.0
-10.0
-15.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Hopper-v1
0.0
-5.0
-10.0
-15.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Humanoid-v1
0.0
-5.0
-10.0
-15.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
0.0
-5.0
-10.0
-15.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
HalfCheetah-v1
0.0
-5.0
-10.0
-15.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Ant-v1
0.0
-5.0
-10.0
-15.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
all
Figure 83: Analysis of choice Threshold for entropy H(π) (C40): 95th percentile of per-
formance scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of
conﬁgurations (right).
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200 Walker2d-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Hopper-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45Humanoid-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Ant-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
all
Figure 84: Analysis of choice Threshold for KL(µ||π) (C35): 95th percentile of performance
scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations
(right).
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
Walker2d-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Ant-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35 Hopper-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Humanoid-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Walker2d-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
HalfCheetah-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 85: Analysis of choice Regularizer coefficient for mean in decoupled KL(µ||π)
(C44): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of
sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
46

0.1
0.3
1.0
3.0
10.0
30.0
100.0
300.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
0.1
0.3
1.0
3.0
10.0
30.0
100.0
300.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
0.1
0.3
1.0
3.0
10.0
30.0
100.0
300.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
Walker2d-v1
0.1
0.3
1.0
3.0
10.0
30.0
100.0
300.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
0.1
0.3
1.0
3.0
10.0
30.0
100.0
300.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Ant-v1
0.1
0.3
1.0
3.0
10.0
30.0
100.0
300.0
0.000
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175
0.200
Hopper-v1
0.1
0.3
1.0
3.0
10.0
30.0
100.0
300.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
Humanoid-v1
0.1
0.3
1.0
3.0
10.0
30.0
100.0
300.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Walker2d-v1
0.1
0.3
1.0
3.0
10.0
30.0
100.0
300.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
HalfCheetah-v1
0.1
0.3
1.0
3.0
10.0
30.0
100.0
300.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Ant-v1
0.1
0.3
1.0
3.0
10.0
30.0
100.0
300.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
all
Figure 86: Analysis of choice Regularizer coefficient for std in decoupled KL(µ||π)
(C45): 95th percentile of performance scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of
sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations (right).
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000 Hopper-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
200
400
600
800
1000
Walker2d-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
500
1000
1500
2000
HalfCheetah-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35 Hopper-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45Humanoid-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30Walker2d-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
HalfCheetah-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Ant-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 87: Analysis of choice Threshold for KL(π||µ) (C36): 95th percentile of performance
scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations
(right).
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000 Hopper-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
Walker2d-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45 Hopper-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40Humanoid-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45Walker2d-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
HalfCheetah-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Ant-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
all
Figure 88: Analysis of choice Regularizer coefficient for KL(π||µ) (C42): 95th percentile
of performance scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of
conﬁgurations (right).
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Walker2d-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30 Hopper-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40Humanoid-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45Walker2d-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45
HalfCheetah-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Ant-v1
0.005
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.08
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
all
Figure 89: Analysis of choice Threshold for mean in decoupled KL(µ||π) (C38): 95th per-
centile of performance scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top
5% of conﬁgurations (right).
5e-05
0.000125
0.00025
0.0005
0.001
0.002
0.004
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
5e-05
0.000125
0.00025
0.0005
0.001
0.002
0.004
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Humanoid-v1
5e-05
0.000125
0.00025
0.0005
0.001
0.002
0.004
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Walker2d-v1
5e-05
0.000125
0.00025
0.0005
0.001
0.002
0.004
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
5e-05
0.000125
0.00025
0.0005
0.001
0.002
0.004
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
5e-05
0.000125
0.00025
0.0005
0.001
0.002
0.004
0.000
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175
0.200
0.225 Hopper-v1
5e-05
0.000125
0.00025
0.0005
0.001
0.002
0.004
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40Humanoid-v1
5e-05
0.000125
0.00025
0.0005
0.001
0.002
0.004
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45Walker2d-v1
5e-05
0.000125
0.00025
0.0005
0.001
0.002
0.004
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45
HalfCheetah-v1
5e-05
0.000125
0.00025
0.0005
0.001
0.002
0.004
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
5e-05
0.000125
0.00025
0.0005
0.001
0.002
0.004
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
all
Figure 90: Analysis of choice Threshold for std in decoupled KL(µ||π) (C39): 95th per-
centile of performance scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top
5% of conﬁgurations (right).
47

10.0
20.0
40.0
80.0
160.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
2000 Hopper-v1
10.0
20.0
40.0
80.0
160.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Humanoid-v1
10.0
20.0
40.0
80.0
160.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
Walker2d-v1
10.0
20.0
40.0
80.0
160.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
HalfCheetah-v1
10.0
20.0
40.0
80.0
160.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
Ant-v1
10.0
20.0
40.0
80.0
160.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Hopper-v1
10.0
20.0
40.0
80.0
160.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Humanoid-v1
10.0
20.0
40.0
80.0
160.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
Walker2d-v1
10.0
20.0
40.0
80.0
160.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
HalfCheetah-v1
10.0
20.0
40.0
80.0
160.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Ant-v1
10.0
20.0
40.0
80.0
160.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
all
Figure 91: Analysis of choice Threshold for KL(ref||π) (C37): 95th percentile of performance
scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of conﬁgurations
(right).
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
250
500
750
1000
1250
1500
1750
Hopper-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500Humanoid-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
200
400
600
800
Walker2d-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
HalfCheetah-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Ant-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Hopper-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Humanoid-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Walker2d-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.000
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
0.175
0.200
0.225
HalfCheetah-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
Ant-v1
0.003
0.01
0.03
0.1
0.3
1.0
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
all
Figure 92: Analysis of choice Regularizer coefficient for KL(µ||π) (C41): 95th percentile
of performance scores conditioned on sub-choice (left) and distribution of sub-choices in top 5% of
conﬁgurations (right).
48
