This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS AND LEARNING SYSTEMS
1
Supervised Learning Achieves Human-Level
Performance in MOBA Games: A Case Study
of Honor of Kings
Deheng Ye
, Guibin Chen, Peilin Zhao, Fuhao Qiu, Bo Yuan, Wen Zhang, Sheng Chen,
Mingfei Sun, Xiaoqian Li, Siqin Li, Jing Liang, Zhenjie Lian, Bei Shi,
Liang Wang, Tengfei Shi, Qiang Fu, Wei Yang, and Lanxiao Huang
Abstract—We
present
JueWu-SL,
the
ﬁrst
supervised-
learning-based
artiﬁcial
intelligence
(AI)
program
that
achieves
human-level
performance
in
playing
multiplayer
online battle arena (MOBA) games. Unlike prior attempts,
we integrate the macro-strategy and the micromanagement of
MOBA-game-playing into neural networks in a supervised and
end-to-end manner. Tested on Honor of Kings, the most popular
MOBA at present, our AI performs competitively at the level of
High King players in standard 5v5 games.
Index
Terms—Game
artiﬁcial
intelligence
(AI),
learning
systems, macro-strategy, micromanagement, multiplayer online
battle arena (MOBA), neural networks.
I. INTRODUCTION
M
ULTIPLAYER online battle arena (MOBA) games,
e.g., Dota, Honor of Kings, and League of Legends,
have been considered as an important and suitable testbed for
artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) research due to their considerable
complexity and varied playing mechanics [1]–[4]. The stan-
dard game mode of MOBA is 5v5, where two opposing teams
of ﬁve players each compete against each other. In this mode,
each individual in a team has to control the actions of one hero
in real time based on both the situation dynamics and the team
strategy. During the game, a hero can grow stronger by killing
enemy heroes, pushing turrets, killing creeps and monsters,
and so on. The goal for players in a team is to destroy
their enemy’s main structure while protecting their own. In
Manuscript received November 27, 2019; revised April 24, 2020 and
August 20, 2020; accepted September 24, 2020. (Deheng Ye and Guibin Chen
are co-ﬁrst authors.) (Corresponding authors: Deheng Ye; Qiang Fu;
Wei Yang.)
Deheng Ye, Guibin Chen, Peilin Zhao, Fuhao Qiu, Bo Yuan, Wen Zhang,
Sheng Chen, Mingfei Sun, Xiaoqian Li, Siqin Li, Jing Liang, Zhenjie
Lian, Bei Shi, Liang Wang, Tengfei Shi, Qiang Fu, and Wei Yang are
with the Tencent AI Lab, Shenzhen, China (e-mail: dericye@tencent.com;
beanchen@tencent.com; masonzhao@tencent.com; frankfhqiu@tencent.com;
jerryyuan@tencent.com; zivenwzhang@tencent.com; victchen@tencent.com;
mingfeisun@tencent.com; gracesqli@tencent.com; xiaoqianli@tencent.com;
masonliang@tencent.com;
leolian@tencent.com;
beishi@tencent.com;
enginewang@tencent.com;
francisshi@tencent.com;
leonfu@tencent.com;
willyang@tencent.com).
Lanxiao Huang is with Tencent Timi Studio, Chengdu, China (e-mail:
jackiehuang@tencent.com).
Color versions of one or more of the ﬁgures in this article are available
online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TNNLS.2020.3029475
MOBA, the gameplay is also varied as it involves two factors:
macro-strategy, i.e., “where to go” on the game map for a
hero, and micromanagement, i.e., “what to do” when the hero
reaches the expected location. Despite such complexity and
mechanism, the methodological explorations on AI systems
for MOBA-game-playing are still very limited [5].
In this article, we explore the potential of supervised
learning (SL) for building MOBA Game AI agents. We are
motivated by the following practices and observations. First,
SL is usually the ﬁrst step to build AI agents and plays
a signiﬁcant role in achieving human-level performance for
many games. For example, the SL network is reused as the
policy network of reinforcement learning (RL) for the Game
AI of Go [6]; a competitive SL model is incorporated as human
knowledge to facilitate the policy exploration of AI agent in
general real-time strategy (RTS) games, such as StarCraft [7];
and pure SL can also produce human-level AI agents in
complex video games, such as Super Smash Bros [8]. Second,
recent studies on policy distillation [9], [10] have empirically
shown that, with effective knowledge representation, SL can
generalize to sequential prediction tasks. In MOBA games,
as experienced human players often judge the game situation
before initiating any acts, the actions (labels) taken in effect
should naturally contain sequential information if properly
extracted. In this sense, we could “distill” the game knowledge
of human experts in a supervised manner. Speciﬁcally, suppose
that we could have well-annotated labels, in which strategies
and actions of a team are embedded, and expressive repre-
sentations of every mini combat at each timestep in a MOBA
game, SL would potentially “distill” an effective mapping from
mini combats to labels given sufﬁcient training data.
However, such distillation-like mapping is very challenging
due to the modeling of both the macro-strategy and the
micromanagement of MOBA players. The macro-strategy,
as an abstract concept in MOBA Esports, has no explicit and
mathematical deﬁnitions per se. The micromanagement is also
a decision-making process of vast complexity due to the hero’s
complicated atomic actions and its dynamic game environment
(the obstacles, allies, enemy heroes, and turrets are evolving
and ever-changing over time).
To this end, we propose an SL method to build MOBA
Game AI agents. We design multiview intent labels to model
2162-237X © 2020 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Tencent. Downloaded on November 25,2020 at 08:14:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
2
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS AND LEARNING SYSTEMS
MOBA player’s macro-strategy; we design hierarchical action
labels for modeling micromanagement. Based on the label
design, we formulate the action-taken process of a MOBA
Game AI agent as a hierarchical multiclass classiﬁcation prob-
lem. We resort to deep convolutional and fully connected (FC)
neural networks with multimodal features to solve the prob-
lem. Unlike previous attempts, our method simultaneously
learns the AI agent’s macro-strategy and micromanagement in
a supervised and end-to-end manner. Here, end-to-end refers
to the combination of macro-strategy and micromanagement
modeling, rather than the whole training process. Speciﬁcally,
the output of the macro-strategy component is embedded
and then provided to the micromanagement component as an
auxiliary task, which has also been applied in other problem
settings [11]–[13]. Furthermore, we develop a scene-based
sampling method for training data preprocessing.
Based on our method, an AI agent named JueWu-SL
(JueWu means “Insight and Intelligence” in Chinese, and SL
refers to supervised learning) is trained using the historical
data of Honor of Kings, whose 1v1 and 5v5 modes have been
used extensively as testbeds for recent Game AI advances [2],
[3], [14]–[16]. JueWu-SL is tested by competing against some
existing AI methods and human players. Encouraging results
demonstrate that our method can produce extremely com-
petitive AI agents with top human-level performance. Such
results justify and indicate the great potential of meticulously
designed SL systems for MOBA Game AI. We expect our
ﬁndings to encourage further research in developing MOBA
Game AI programs using SL.
To sum up, the contributions of this article are as follows.
1) We introduce an SL method for Game AI in MOBA,
which allows efﬁcient incorporation of game knowledge
from human experts, leading to the fast manufacturing
of high-level AI agents. To the best of our knowledge,
this is the ﬁrst work for Game AI in MOBA that
simultaneously models micromanagement and macro-
strategy, leveraging convolutional and FC neural net-
works with multimodal features. We further propose a
scene-based sampling method to divide a whole MOBA
gameplay into easily tuned game snippets, making it
possible to polish the AI performance in varying game
situations.
2) Extensive experiments show that our AI performs com-
petitively in matches against High King1 level human
players in Honor of Kings. This is the ﬁrst time for
SL-based AI in MOBA games to achieve such per-
formance. Qualitative analysis is further provided to
understand why the AI works in practice.
The remainder of this article is organized as follows. We
review related work in Section II. We then brieﬂy introduce
some background knowledge of MOBA games, before we
present our Game AI method in Section IV. Section V
1In Honor of Kings, a player’s game level (or rank) can be No-rank, Bronze,
Silver, Gold, Platinum, Diamond, Heavenly, King (also known as Champion),
and High King (the highest level), in ascending order. A King player’s rank
is further distinguished by the number of stars gained. The more stars the
higher rank. King players reaching 50 stars are promoted to High King.
covers experimental results and discussions. We conclude in
Section VI.
II. RELATED WORK
Our work applies neural networks to system-level AI devel-
opment for playing games. We, thus, summarize representative
studies on system-level AI for different types of games,
covering Non-RTS, RTS, and MOBA games. Partial Game
AI solutions, e.g., predicting match results or time to die for
heroes [17], [18], will not be discussed in detail.
A. Non-RTS Games
The early method for Game AI was search-based. One
classic work was DeepBlue that defeated the world chess
champion [19]. Follow-up studies then focused on designing
AI agents for more complex games. For example, AlphaGo,
a Go-playing agent that defeated top professionals, was devel-
oped via tree search and neural network [6] and was later
enhanced to AlphaZero [20]. Many other types of Go agents
were also proposed, e.g., FineArt (the champion of the UEC
Cup in 2017) from Tencent, and OpenGo (open-sourced
reimplementation of AlphaGo) from Facebook [21]. In the
meantime, RL-based AI agents were also developed for Atari
series [22] and ﬁrst-person shooter (FPS) games [23], [24].
The great success of AI for these game types has inspired
research for complex strategy video games, such as general
RTS games and MOBA games.
B. General RTS Games
During the past several years, StarCraft has been used as
the testbed for Game AI research in RTS. Methods adopted by
existing studies include rule-based, supervised, reinforcement,
and their combinations [25], [26]. For rule-based approach,
a representative is SAIDA, the champion of StarCraft AI
Competition 2018.2 Another recent AI program AlphaStar
combines SL and RL and achieves grandmaster level in
playing StarCraft 2 [7].
C. MOBA Games
As a subgenre of RTS, MOBA games emphasize complex
control and team collaboration and become a suitable testbed
for AI research. However, we see limited attempts on
system-level AI development for playing MOBA games.
State-of-the-art studies for MOBA 5v5 games are from
Tencent and OpenAI, as summarized in Table I. Tencent
HMS, a macro-strategy model for Honor of Kings [2],
was developed by dividing the whole game into different
phases and then training a model with user data for each
phase in a supervised manner. However, HMS only modeled
macro-strategy, i.e., predicting where to go in the game map,
and overlooked micromanagement, i.e., speciﬁc action to take.
Thus, HMS cannot be solely regarded as a system-level AI
solution for MOBA games. Furthermore, the macro-strategy
in JueWu-SL differs from HMS in: 1) introducing multiview
2See https://github.com/TeamSAIDA/SAIDA
Authorized licensed use limited to: Tencent. Downloaded on November 25,2020 at 08:14:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
YE et al.: SL ACHIEVES HUMAN-LEVEL PERFORMANCE IN MOBA GAMES
3
TABLE I
COMPARING AI LEARNING SYSTEMS FOR MOBA GAMES
Fig. 1.
Game UI of Honor of Kings. The hero controlled by the player is
called the “ main hero.” Bottom left is the movement controller (C.1), while
the right-bottom set of buttons are ability controllers (C.2 and C.3). Players
can observe game situation via the screen (local view) and obtain game states
with the dashboard (B) and obtain global view with top-left minimap (A).
global and local intents to encode player’s macro-strategy in
MOBA games; 2) eliminating explicit cross-communication
and phase attention used in the HMS model; and 3) uniﬁed
feature representations for both macro-strategy and microman-
agement. Another study was recently proposed by OpenAI,
which introduced an AI for playing Dota 2 5v5 games (Dota 2
is a popular MOBA game), called OpenAI Five, with the
ability to defeat professional human players. OpenAI Five is
based on deep RL via self-play and is trained using a scaled-up
proximal policy optimization (PPO) [27]. The implementation
details of OpenAI Five are open since December 13, 2019 [4].
In contrast, we contribute an SL approach and our attempt
sheds light on the potential of supervised neural models in
building AI for the multiagent MOBA 5v5 games.
III. BACKGROUND
Fig. 1 shows a typical game scenario in Honor of Kings.
The player controls the main hero, located at the screen center,
with a ﬁne-grained local view of the environment, which
includes observable characters’ position, health, and so on. In
contrast, the minimap on the top left gives a coarse-grained
view of the global map and the whole game situation, which
includes the information of turrets, creeps, and the observable
heroes. In terms of hero control, the player uses the joystick
(at the bottom left) and buttons (at bottom right) to move
the main hero and trigger its skills and normal attacks. The
buttons at the bottom middle are used to trigger the assistive
skills, such as Return Base and Summon Skill. With this
interface, the micromanagement of a player, i.e., “what to
do concretely” given the game state, is all the controls for
the main hero, including movements, normal attack, and skill
triggering, while the macro-strategy refers to the player’s
intention on “where to go on the map” and “what to do
globally” during a certain period of game time, in order to
gain rewards effectively.
Given a certain game scene in MOBA with observable game
states and hero information, an experienced MOBA player is
able to judge what actions to take and where to go on the map.
For example, for the case in Fig. 1, a high-level player may
directly attack the enemy hero using skills, given the fact that
the main hero is in a safe position and its level is higher than
the enemy’s (level 7 versus level 3). The actions taken here
inherently and naturally have a correspondence to the game
states.
IV. METHOD
This section describes our method in detail, including label
design, features, model, and data sampling.
A. Overview
We aim to build an AI model for playing MOBA games
via SL. To this end, we design features and labels suitable
for MOBA games by drawing inspirations from professional
MOBA players. The features have two parts: vector feature,
which represents the game states, and image-like feature,
which represents the maps. The labels also have two parts:
intent labels for macro-strategy and action labels for micro-
management. Speciﬁcally, the intent labels, abstracted from
player’s attention in a game, are multiviewed, with global and
local intents. The action label has a hierarchical multiclass
structure, which contains two parts. The ﬁrst part is the action
to take at a high level, such as move; the second one is how
to take a speciﬁc action, such as the discretized direction to
move. Note that the action labels are the output labels of the
model, while the intent labels are used as an auxiliary task
during training to improve the model performance. With such
feature and label design, the AI modeling task can be solved
as a hierarchical multiclass classiﬁcation problem. Speciﬁcally,
a deep neural network model is trained to predict what actions
to take for a given game situation. For online deployment,
the model predicts the output labels hierarchically in two
steps: 1) the high-level action to take and 2) the execution
speciﬁcations of that action.
In the following, we use the popular MOBA game Honor
of Kings as an example to illustrate how the proposed method
works. Note that the methodologies proposed in this article
are general to MOBA games since different MOBA games
share similar playing mechanism. For example, our hierarchi-
cal action design and multiview intent design can be easily
adapted to other MOBA games, such as Dota and League of
Legends.
B. Multiview Intents for Macro-strategy
Similar to how players make decisions according to the
game map, macro-strategy predicts regions for an agent to
move to. Based on human knowledge, regions where attack
takes place can be an indicator of players’ destination because,
otherwise, players would not have spent time on such spots.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Tencent. Downloaded on November 25,2020 at 08:14:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
4
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS AND LEARNING SYSTEMS
Fig. 2.
Multiview intent label design for abstracting player’s macro-strategy.
We, thus, deﬁne ground-truth regions as the regions where
players conduct their next attack. However, an occasional
attacking behavior in a given spot does not have to be the
goal of a player, and it might be a consequence of moving
somewhere else and encountering an opponent on the way.
We, thus, only consider regions where continuous attacking
behaviors exist. Based on such consideration, we design mul-
tiview intent labels, including a global intent and a local intent
label to model macro-strategy. Fig. 2 illustrates the idea of
multiview intent labels.
The global intent of the player is the next target or region,
where the players may attack creeps to gain gold, attack turrets
for experience, and others. It can be identiﬁed from the game
situation, which is very important for RTS. For example, at the
beginning of the game, the jungle hero normally focuses on
the jungle region, where he can kill the monsters to grow the
game level faster. To deﬁne the global intent label, we divide
the square MOBA map into course-grained N ×N regions (for
Honor of Kings, N = 24, i.e., a total of 576 intent classes is
deﬁned for this game). Then, the global intent label is deﬁned
as the numbered region on the map where the next series of
attacks happen.
Local intent is short-term planning in local combat, includ-
ing gathering in the bush or safe points, retreating to the nearby
turret, or waiting for target heroes, before ﬁnally attacking a
target. To deﬁne local intent label, we divide the local-view
map into ﬁne-grained M × M regions (for Honor of Kings,
M = 12), where the resolution of each local region is designed
to be roughly equal to the physical edge length of a hero.
Then, the local intent label is one of the numbered regions
from the local-view map of the agent, which is extracted from
the halfway position of the players between two attack events.
Taking Honor of Kings for example, we have analyzed that
the interval between two attack events is about 6.5 s on aver-
age. This local intent label provides additional intermediate
information for learning macro-strategy.
Fig. 3 gives a concrete example of the global intent extrac-
tion. Let s be one session in a game that contains several
frames, and s −1 indicates the previous session of s. Let ts
be the starting frame of s. Note that a session ends along with
attack behavior; therefore, there exists a region ys in ts where
the hero conducts attack. As shown, the label for s −1 is ys,
while the label for s is ys+1. Intuitively, by setting up labels
in this way, we expect agents to learn to move to ys at the
beginning of the game. Similarly, agents are supposed to move
to appropriate regions given the game situation.
Fig. 3.
Example of the global intent label extraction.
Fig. 4.
Hierarchical action label design for representing micromanagement
in MOBA.
Finally, both of these intent labels are trained with the
multimodal features, and their softmax results are then fed as
auxiliary features for the task of action labels training, which
will be shown in Fig. 7.
C. Hierarchical Action Design for Micromanagement
We design hierarchical action labels to control a hero’s
micromanagement, as illustrated in Fig. 4. Speciﬁcally, each
label consists of two components (or sublabels), which rep-
resent level-1 and level-2 actions. The ﬁrst one, i.e., level-1
action, indicates which action to take, including move, normal
attack, skill 1, skill 2, skill 3, summons, return base, and so on.
The second one, level-2 action, tells how to execute the action
concretely according to its action type. For example, if the
ﬁrst component is the move-action, then the second one will
be a 2-D-direction to move along. When the ﬁrst component
is normal-attack, the second one will be a target to attack. If
the ﬁrst component is skill 1 (or 2, or 3), the second one will
depend on the action type of level-1 action because all the
skills 1–3 of different heroes belong to three types: direction
type, target type, and position type. For example, if it is the
position type, the second one will be a position where the
action will take effect.
D. Multimodal Features
Based on the game expert’s experience, we develop a
comprehensive list of features, including vector feature and
image-like feature, to represent the game situations and com-
bats during a MOBA game.
In Fig. 5, we illustrate the extraction process of vector
and image-like features. The vector feature is made up of
observable hero attributes and game states. Hero attributes
consist of current health point (hp), historical hp in past
frames, skill cool down, damage attributes, defense attributes,
gold, level, buff, historical coordinates in past frames, and
Authorized licensed use limited to: Tencent. Downloaded on November 25,2020 at 08:14:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
YE et al.: SL ACHIEVES HUMAN-LEVEL PERFORMANCE IN MOBA GAMES
5
Fig. 5.
Illustrating multimodal feature extraction. We extract observable
game states and game unit attributes from the dashboard, as vector features.
We extract image-like features from the local and minimap of the main hero.
Fig. 6.
Illustration of local image-like feature extraction. Transforming a
local view to a local image-like feature channel: damage channel. In the local
view, an enemy is releasing a skill to attack the main hero. The attacked range
is shown as two ﬂuorescent curves. This local view is transformed into the
image-like feature channel, for which the corresponding positions of the red
curves are assigned with values according to the real-time damage.
so on. Game states are composed of team kill difference,
gold difference, game time, turrets difference, and so on.
For convolution, we use image-like features extracted from
the game engine, rather than the image. We develop local
image-like and global image-like features that are extracted
from the player hero’s local view map and the global minimap,
respectively. Fig. 6 gives an example of a local image-like
feature for the damage channel that describes one skill effect
from the enemy hero. On the other hand, for global image-like
features, the channels are like matrices of the positions of
observable heroes, soldiers, monsters, and other information.
These image-like features represent high-level concepts that
are used to help reduce the number of convolution layers
required. Feature setups will be covered in Section V-A.
E. Model
To train a model for a hero, a training dataset of {(xi, yi)|i =
1, . . . , n} is extracted from historical games. Each instance
(xi, yi) is extracted from the current and past frames, where
xi and yi correspond to the multimodal features and the intent
and action labels of the player, respectively. Concretely, xi =
{xv
i , x g
i , xl
i }, where xv
i , x g
i , and xl
i are the vector feature, global
image-like feature,andlocal image-like feature, respectively.
yi = (y0
ai, y1
ai, yg
bi, yl
bi), where y0
ai ∈{1, . . ., m} and y1
ai are
the level-1 and level-2 action label, and m denotes the number
of level-1 actions; yg
bi and yl
bi are the global and local intent
labels, respectively. Based on the data, a deep neural network
model is proposed for Honor of Kings in Fig. 7, which is also
suitable for any MOBA games. In this model, the global and
local image-like features x g and xl are mapped to hg(x g; ψg)
and hl(xl; ψl), respectively, by deep convolutional neural
networks, where ψg and ψl are network parameters. Then,
they are concatenated to predict the global and local intent
labels as
pm+1 = eg

hl(xl; ψl), hg(x g; ψg)

, φg

pm+2 = el
hl(xl; ψl), hg(x g; ψg), φl

where φg and φl are the network parameters. In addition,
the vector feature xv is mapped to hv(xv; ψv), where ψv is
a network parameter. For vector features, we perform feature
grouping to split them into 11 parts, as shown in Fig. 5.
We then feed each of them through FC layers before they
are concatenated. Finally, the model concatenates all the ﬁve
above vectors and maps it to the ﬁnal hidden layer, as
h(x) = hm

[hv(xv; ψv), hg(x g; ψg),
hl(xl; ψl), pm+1, pm+2]; μ

where μ denotes parameters of FC. Then, m + 1 different
functions { f i(·; ωi)|i = 0, . . . , m} are utilized to make a
prediction p = (p0, . . . , p(m+2)), where pi = f i(h(x); ωi)
for i = 0, . . . , m. To ﬁt a prediction to preprocessed human
data, a multitask loss is proposed as a weighted sum of losses
ℓ(p, y) = wa0ℓCE

p0, y0
a

+ wa1ℓCE

py0
a, y1
a

+wbgℓCE

pm+1, yg
b

+ wblℓCE

pm+2, yl
b

where the ﬁrst two items are for action labels, while the latter
two are for intent labels, and ℓCE denotes the cross entropy
loss, as we discretize intent and action labels. For action labels,
we only sum two losses because the label y does not provide
any information for the actions: {y ̸= y0
a|y = 1, . . . , m}.
To train such a model, the objective is introduced as follows:
min
θ
n

i=1
ℓ(pi, yi) + λ∥θ∥2
2
where θ = {ψv, ψl, ψg, φl, φg, μ, ω0, ω1, . . . , ωm} and λ is the
regularization parameter for avoiding overﬁtting. This objec-
tive can be solved using various stochastic gradient methods,
such as Adam [28].
F. Data Preprocessing
While the model is important for our AI, it cannot perform
well without in-depth data preprocessing.
1) Scene Identiﬁcation: As a preprocessing step, a MOBA
game is segmented into different scenes because the action
trajectories of a hero vary to achieve different purposes. Based
on trajectory analysis, we deﬁne the following game scenes for
MOBA (index (1–6) denotes priority).
1) Push-Turret: Attack enemy turret to occupy vision and
control of the battleﬁeld.
2) Combat: Encounter enemy hero and initiate a ﬁght.
3) Lane-Farm: Attack waves of minions to gain gold and
experience in the lane area.
4) Jungle-Farm:
Attack
monsters
to
gain
gold
and
experience in the jungle area.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Tencent. Downloaded on November 25,2020 at 08:14:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
6
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS AND LEARNING SYSTEMS
Fig. 7.
Our multimodal and multitask deep neural network. The main structure consists of two parts: multimodal encoders and multitask output heads.
Encoders: vector encoder with multilayer perceptrons and image encoder with multilayer convolution. Output heads: auxiliary macro-strategy tasks and
micromanagement tasks.
5) Return: Return home base for recovering hero state or
defending crystal.
6) Navigation: Move to another region in the map for
macro-strategy intents.
Most of the scenes are strongly related to the attacking
targets and distances between game units, i.e., target-oriented.
For example, the Push-Turret Scene can be identiﬁed from
the trajectory of attacking an enemy turret (a hero has to
be in the attack range of the enemy turret in order to
attack it). The Return Scene is related to a session that a
hero returns to the home base for status recovery (there has
to be no interruption from enemies over a period of frames
for a successful return). The Combat Scene is identiﬁed by
checking whether heroes are in a continuous ﬁght. After
identifying these target-oriented scenes, the rest of the scenes
are categorized as the Navigation Scene.
2) Data Tuning Under Each Scene: Such a segmentation
keeps the playing style of a given hero similar within
each scene, which makes it convenient to tune the hero’s
performance in each one. Taking Navigation for example, one
mainly wants to take the move action rather than releasing
skills aimlessly. Therefore, the Move action should account
for a large proportion of all actions in Navigation. However,
in Combat, the focus should be attacking and skill releasing,
together with move actions to avoid being attacked. Taking
the DiaoChan hero in Honor of Kings as an example,
empirically, the proportion of its move, normal attack, skill 1,
skill 2, and skill 3 are tuned to 3:1:1:1:1 in Combat and
10:1:1:1:1 in Navigation. Note that these scenes sometimes
can be overlapped. For example, when the opponent heroes
stay under the turret, the pushing turret scene is also a combat
scene. Once overlapped, the scenes categorization follows the
abovementioned priority (1–6).
3) Data Tuning Across Scenes: After segmentation, the data
are imbalanced between different scenes. The reason for this
imbalance is the intrinsic design of the MOBA game. For
example, turret pushing happens less frequently than combat.
The jungle resources, namely, the monsters, are refreshed
every few minutes, which limits the proportion of this scene.
Besides, the distributions of these scenes are different in terms
of the roles of the hero. For example, because the role of a
support hero is to use move to detect opponents and support
teammates, most of its game scenes will fall into Navigation.
However, the performances of AI in those scenes are equally
important. Thus, we uniformly balance these scene data by
downsampling to enable AI to be adequately trained in every
scene. The downsampling ratio of these scenes is tuned hero by
hero. Note that scenes are segmented only for off-line training.
There is no difference in training between scenes. For online
use, AI directly predicts actions based on the output of the
model shown in Fig. 7.
4) Move Sample Enhancement: Move is important for all
MOBA scenes. To compute Move actions effectively, we fur-
ther amend the move directions for all game scenes. To
expand, the move direction of a player is often random or
useless, so that if the label of move direction is only computed
using the single frame, it will be noisy. We thereby deﬁne
the label of move direction as the difference between the
position of the current frame and the position of a future
frame, i.e., after N frames, depending on whether the hero is in
combats. In the Combat Scene, we can set N as a ﬁne-grained
step since high-level players treat every move action seriously.
In other scenes, it can be a coarse-grained step, since the player
usually executes meaningless move actions. For the case of
Honor of Kings, we use N = 5 (0.33 s) for the Combat Scene
and N = 15 (1 s) for others.
5) Attack Sample Normalization: Another important sam-
pling is target selection for the Combat and Push-Turret
scenes. In the raw dataset, the examples of target selection
for attacking are imbalanced between low-damage high-health
(LDHH) heroes and high-damage low-health (HDLH) heroes.
There are many more examples of attacking an LDHH hero
than those of attacking an HDLH hero due to their different
health property. Without downsampling, the model will prefer
to attack the LDHH hero. However, the prior target normally
is an HDLH hero, which is the key to win a local battle.
To address this issue, we propose a hero-attack sampling
method, termed attack sample normalization, which samples
Authorized licensed use limited to: Tencent. Downloaded on November 25,2020 at 08:14:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
YE et al.: SL ACHIEVES HUMAN-LEVEL PERFORMANCE IN MOBA GAMES
7
the same number of examples for one whole attacking process
for all heroes. Experiments in real games indicate that attack
sample normalization dramatically improves the quality of
target selection.
V. EXPERIMENTS
A. Experimental Setup
1) Dataset: The raw dataset comes from games played by
the top 1% human players in Honor of Kings, from which
we extract training samples. Each sample contains features,
labels, label weights, frame numbers, and so on. We specify
the number of parameters, such as the hero’s ID, game
level, camp, performance score, and date of the gameplay,
for data ﬁltering. There is an overall performance score of
each player after the game and a real-time score of each
player during the game based on the player’s performance.
We ﬁlter out the poorly performed games of top players with
a performance score threshold, which is empirically set as the
overall score that exceeds 90% of players using the same hero.
For example, for the DiaoChan hero, such a score is set to no
less than 10.0. We then preprocess, shufﬂe, and store the data
in the HDF5 format. After preprocessing, only one-twentieth
of the frames will be kept on average. Finally, 100 million
samples from about 0.12 million games are extracted for one
hero in our experiments. Each dataset of a hero is randomly
split into two subsets: 1) a training set of around 90 million
samples and 2) a test set of about 10 million samples.
2) Model Setup: Recall the three types of features, i.e.,
vector, local view, and global view. The vector feature has
2334 elements, of which 2180 are for the ten heroes and
the remaining 154 are for the player’s hero. The local view
of a hero is set as a square with the hero at the center,
of which the edge length is 30000. It is then divided into
31*31 grids, to keep the grid length close to hero length,
since the hero length is around 1000. Based on this resolution,
the local image-like feature is of shape 59*31*31, i.e., it has
59 channels. The global map is divided into 24*24 grids
(the edge length of the global map is 113000), and the
global image-like feature is of shape 56*24*24, i.e., it has
56 channels.
We train one model for one AI hero. For each hero, we use
16 Nvidia P40 GPUs to train for around 36 h. We use
Adam [28] with initial learning rate 0.0001. The batch size
is set to 256 for each GPU card. The weights of the four
losses, i.e., wa0, wa1, wbg, and wbl, are of the same scale
with our training set and are, thereby, tuned to 1 empirically.
λ for regularization is set to 1. In Honor of Kings, one game
frame is about 66.7 ms (15 frames equal to 1 s). When in
usage, the total reaction time of AI is 188 ms, including the
observation delay (OD), which is set to 133 ms (two frames),
and the reaction delay (RD), which consumes about 55 ms and
is made up of processing time of features, model, results, and
the transmission. Note that the OD can only be set as an
integer.
3) Metrics: The most convincing way to evaluate a Game
AI program is to deploy it online to test. We, thereby, deploy
the AI model into Honor of Kings. Similar to the evaluations
of AlphaGo [6], we evaluate the following aspects.
TABLE II
COMPARISON WITH BASELINE METHODS
1) Comparison against baseline methods. These meth-
ods include: 1) behavior-tree (BT), which is a classic
search-based method for Game AI and has been used in
various games as the internal AI, including StarCraft,
Dota, and Honor of Kings; 2) HMS: as mentioned
earlier, because HMS [2] cannot be used as a complete
AI solution alone, a direct comparison is not possi-
ble, and we, thus, embed the output of HMS to our
micromodel; and 3) two-stage: the macro-strategy and
micromanagement models are trained separately and
used in two stages. Speciﬁcally, the macromodel ﬁrst
predicts where to go in the map, and the micromodel
predicts what to do after reaching the destination.
2) The performance of AI playing against human teams.
We conduct matches in standard MOBA 5v5 mode,
i.e., ﬁve AI agents play against ﬁve human players. This
examines JueWu-SL’s combat ability as a team.
3) The performance of AI playing with human teammates.
We use AI + human team to play against the human
team. This examines JuwWu-SL’s collaboration with the
human.
B. Experimental Results
1) Comparison With Baseline Methods: We run a tour-
nament among JueWu-SL and other AI programs in Honor
of Kings. We run 100 matches for each comparison. The
results are summarized in Table II. JueWu-SL outperforms
BT, HMS, and Two-Stage with 100%, 86%, and 92% win rate,
respectively. We also compute the exact binomial conﬁdence
interval (CI) [29] for each win rate. We can see that our
AI performs stronger than baseline methods in real games,
in terms of team kill, team gold, turrets destroyed, and so on.
2) Playing Strength Against Human: As mentioned earlier,
a player’s rank in Honor of Kings, from low to high, can
be No-rank, Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum, Diamond, Heav-
enly, King, and High King (the highest level; 50-star King).
A King player’s rank is further distinguished by the number
of stars gained. King players reaching 80 stars are very rare.
We invited players of 80-star King level to play against
JueWu-SL. All invited members were top-ranked players in the
Sichuan Province of China. They often played as a team and
can collaborate well. To thoroughly examine our AI’s ability
against the human team, the human team was encouraged to
try different game strategies. Note that before we invited such
top-notch human players, we had extensively tested JueWu-SL
to make sure that it can easily defeat entry-level King players
(top 1% according to statistics of the 2018 Fall Season [2];
Authorized licensed use limited to: Tencent. Downloaded on November 25,2020 at 08:14:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
8
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS AND LEARNING SYSTEMS
Fig. 8.
Multiagent collaboration. Two AI heroes, AI-1 and AI-2, are in the blue health bar; the enemy hero in the red bar. (a) AI-1 protects AI-2 with a
shield buff to guarantee safety. (b) and (c) AI-1 forces the enemy to change move direction with its skill, creating space for AI-2 to lock the target with its
ultimate skill. (d) AI-2’s skill hits, and the enemy gets killed (subﬁgures a, b, c, and d, from left to right).
Fig. 9.
Ambush with a critical strike. The AI hero is in the blue health bar; the enemy hero in the red bar. (a) AI hides in the bush, invisible to the enemy.
(b) and (c) AI assaults with a deadly skill combo. (d) enemy hero killed (subﬁgures a, b, c, and d, from left to right).
TABLE III
MATCH BETWEEN AI AND TOP HUMAN TEAM
note that the proportion of players in each game level may
slightly vary from season to season).
The match results are listed in Table III. AI dominantly
won the ﬁrst ﬁve matches, demonstrating a strong level of
micromanagement and team collaboration. However, it was
defeated consecutively in Game 5 and Game 6. In both
games, the human team adopted an attempted opening strategy
by invading the Jungle of the AI team, followed by turret
pushing in the middle. The AI could not handle this Jungle
invading very well in the opening. As a result, the human team
quickly gained an advantage in gold and experience. Then,
the human players’ huddle, i.e., stay together to protect each
other. Finally, the human team was able to win the game even
though the team kill was not dominant, as shown in Table III.
To tackle this problem, we make the following adjustments:
1) divide the Jungle region into two parts, i.e., home jungle and
opponent jungle; 2) extract data containing team ﬁghts happen
in the home jungle using our scene-based sampling method;
and 3) ﬁne-tune the trained model with these data. After these
adjustments, we continued the match. It was observed that AI
learned how to handle the aforementioned bad case and won
the next four games in a row.
In the KPL Finals of 2018 (KPL is short for King
Pro League, which is an annual Honor of Kings Esports
tournament. KPL to Honor of Kings is similar to TI (The
International) to Dota, we invited a semiprofessional team that
consists of ﬁve celebrated human players in the community
(two former professionals and three well-known Esports
players) to play against JueWu-SL. The match was broadcast
live and worldwide on December 22, 2018. The match lasted
for 12 min 59 s. AI won the match by a team pushing
from the middle lane. The total team kill was 12-to-12. The
number of turrets destroyed and the team gold between AI
and human were 6-to-4 and 38.9k-to-35.6k, respectively.
In these matches, we observe that AI learned many
high-level human-like game tactics and can execute these
tactics well. Here, we analyze a few game episodes between AI
and the semiprofessional human team to illustrate the tactics
that AI has learned. In Fig. 8, one example of AI’s team
collaboration is shown. We can observe in detail how two
AI heroes collaborate using move and skills to kill a hero
controlled by a human. In Fig. 9, we show a successful ambush
of AI. The AI hero ﬁrst hides in the bush, waiting for the
enemy to come. Once the target appears, AI precisely releases
a combo of skills, creating vast damage to the enemy hero.
Then, AI ﬁnishes a kill with a pursuit.
Some matches played by our AI are publicly available at
https://sourl.cn/kjmPk7. Through these matches, one can see
how it actually performs.
3) Playing Strength With Human Teammates: For single
AI bot ability evaluation, we test the case that one AI
Authorized licensed use limited to: Tencent. Downloaded on November 25,2020 at 08:14:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
YE et al.: SL ACHIEVES HUMAN-LEVEL PERFORMANCE IN MOBA GAMES
9
TABLE IV
ABLATION STUDY
model cooperates with four King level human players to ﬁght
against a human team of ﬁve players of the same level.
The opponents and teammates of AI are different groups
of persons for different matches. According to our tests,
our AI collaborates very well with high-level human team-
mates since it is trained using preprocessed human data.
Taking the model of DiaoChan (a hero in Honor of Kings) as
an example, it achieves a high win rate (70%) over 40 matches.
Its damage to enemy heroes constitutes more than 30% of the
total team damage, demonstrating that AI masters the game
even when playing with a human. Similar performance can be
observed from other AI heroes.
4) Component Analysis:
We
conduct ablation
studies
to analyze the effectiveness of each component in our
method, including multimodal features, sampling methods,
and macrointent labels. The results of 100 matches for each
ablation are given in Table IV. We observe that all these
components signiﬁcantly contribute to the ﬁnal version of our
AI program. Speciﬁcally, the vector features and scene-based
sampling are the most important. The win rate without these
two components against the full version drops to 17% and
21%, respectively. We see that AI becomes weaker without
learning macro-strategy as the auxiliary task (31% win rate),
which demonstrates the usefulness of our modeling of player’s
intents during the game. In fact, these components are not pro-
posed at once and are added incrementally with veriﬁed effec-
tiveness, during the process of developing the AI program.
C. Discussion
We now discuss the underlying mechanism of the proposed
method and some lessons learned.
Essentially, our AI is the collection of intelligence from
top human players considered in the dataset. Under a super-
vised setting, AI is trained to synthesize an averaged strategy
from human gameplays. In particular, the proposed AI model
captures generalizable representations of both macro-strategy
and micromanagement. Its macro-strategy component serves
as a coordination signal for AI heroes and is implemented
as an auxiliary task to its micromanagement component,
which outputs the actions of each single AI. The multimodal
features, including local and global image-like features and
vector features, provide an informative description of the game
state. Furthermore, from a huge amount of historical data that
have thorough coverage of the game map and the heroes,
we only choose well-performed games of top players (see
Section V) rather than using them directly, and we sample
scenes and actions taken within a scene (see Section IV-F). As
mentioned earlier, the raw data utilization is only one-twentieth
after processing. With such modeling and processing, AI is
equipped with human intent and knowledge to cope with
the varying game situations. Consequently, although the raw
dataset for training is from the top 1% human players,
the resulting AI outperforms the top 1% players in real games.
Recall that the aim of this article is to provide answers to
an unexplored yet important Game AI problem: whether and
how SL, which is a widely used Game AI method, works for
MOBA games? Furthermore, what are the key techniques to
build competitive MOBA Game AI agents that imitate human
data? While exploring the performance upper bounds of both
RL and SL for MOBA Game AI is beyond the scope of
this paper, we qualitatively compare these two techniques to
provide guidance on which to choose. Compared with RL,
SL has an advantage in several aspects. 1) Fast Manufacturing.
The exploration of RL in MOBA can be extremely expensive
due to its giant complexity. A recent RL-based Dota AI [4] was
trained continuously trained for as long as ten months using
a massive amount of computing resources, i.e., thousands of
GPUs. By comparison, SL can be trained incredibly faster
to achieve the top player level. As mentioned earlier, given
top human data, our AI is trained for only one to days using
affordable resources, i.e., 16 GPUs. 2) Ability to Scale. For SL,
AI can be trained hero by hero, with each hero using corre-
sponding human data. Hence, methodologically, it is not hard
to cover all the heroes in a MOBA game. For RL, a typical
way of generating training data is through self-play [3], [4],
which requires determining a pool of heroes before training.
Existing RL systems have failed to scale up the number of
heroes in the pool. For example, OpenAI Five only supported
17 heroes for Dota 2, the AI ability decreased when adding
more heroes [4]. 3) Application. Naturally, the strategy of AI
using human data tends to be human-like, which can easily
be applied to real-world applications. In contrast, the strategy
played by RL-based AI has obvious distinctions to that of
human players [4]. On the other hand, one drawback of SL is
the requirement of high-quality human data. Furthermore, SL’s
upper limit is theoretically lower than the RL counterpart, with
a precondition of having massive resources and time for RL
training. It becomes a tradeoff between computing resources
and performance when choosing between RL and SL.
VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
This article introduces the design process of the AI agent,
JueWu-SL, for playing standard MOBA 5v5 games that are
considered as one of the most complex game types at present.
We formulate the action-taken process of a MOBA agent as
a hierarchical multiclass classiﬁcation problem. We develop a
supervised model to solve the problem, leveraging neural net-
works on top of both intent and action labels to simultaneously
capture the intrinsics of macro-strategy and micromanagement
of MOBA from experienced human data. We show that, for the
ﬁrst time, supervised AI agents can achieve top human-level
performance in MOBA games. Although we use Honor of
Kings as a case study, the problem formulation, the proposed
techniques, and the lessons learned are also applicable to other
MOBA games.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Tencent. Downloaded on November 25,2020 at 08:14:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
10
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NEURAL NETWORKS AND LEARNING SYSTEMS
We expect JueWu-SL to encourage further methods using
SL or RL to build AI agents for MOBA. For example, our
network structure can be used as the policy network in RL.
Also, our model can be easily adapted to provide suitable
initializations in an RL setting and can also serve as the
opponent for guiding RL’s policy training. As an ongoing step,
we are combining SL and RL to further improve our AI’s
ability. We are also exploring real-world applications that can
beneﬁt from our Game AI method.
REFERENCES
[1] V. do Nascimento Silva and L. Chaimowicz,
“MOBA: A new
arena for game AI,” 2017, arXiv:1705.10443. [Online]. Available:
http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.10443
[2] B. Wu, “Hierarchical macro strategy model for moba game ai,” in Proc.
AAAI Conf. Artif. Intell., vol. 33, 2019, pp. 1206–1213.
[3] D. Ye et al., “Mastering complex control in moba games with deep
reinforcement learning,” in Proc. AAAI, 2020, pp. 6672–6679.
[4] C. Berner, G. Brockman, B. Chan, and V. Cheung, “Dota 2 with large
scale deep reinforcement learning,” 2019, arXiv:1912.06680. [Online].
Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/1912.06680
[5] G. Robertson and I. Watson, “A review of real-time strategy game ai,”
AI Mag., vol. 35, no. 4, pp. 75–104, 2014.
[6] D. Silver et al., “Mastering the game of go with deep neural networks
and tree search,” Nature, vol. 529, no. 7587, pp. 484–489, Jan. 2016.
[7] O. Vinyals et al., “Grandmaster level in StarCraft II using multi-
agent reinforcement learning,” Nature, vol. 575, no. 7782, pp. 350–354,
Nov. 2019.
[8] Z. Chen and D. Yi, “The game imitation: Deep supervised convolutional
networks for quick video game AI,” 2017, arXiv:1702.05663. [Online].
Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.05663
[9] A. A. Rusu et al., “Policy distillation,” 2015, arXiv:1511.06295.
[Online]. Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/1511.06295
[10] W. M. Czarnecki, R. Pascanu, S. Osindero, S. Jayakumar, G. Swirszcz,
and M. Jaderberg, “Distilling policy distillation,” in Proc. 22nd Int. Conf.
Artif. Intell. Statist., 2019, pp. 1331–1340.
[11] T. Trinh, A. Dai, T. Luong, and Q. Le, “Learning longer-term depen-
dencies in rnns with auxiliary losses,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach. Learn.,
2018, pp. 4965–4974.
[12] P. Vincent, H. Larochelle, Y. Bengio, and P.-A. Manzagol, “Extracting
and composing robust features with denoising autoencoders,” in Proc.
25th Int. Conf. Mach. Learn., 2008, pp. 1096–1103.
[13] M. Jaderberg et al., “Reinforcement learning with unsupervised aux-
iliary tasks,” 2016, arXiv:1611.05397. [Online]. Available: http://arxiv.
org/abs/1611.05397
[14] C. Eisenach, H. Yang, J. Liu, and H. Liu, “Marginal policy gradients:
A uniﬁed family of estimators for bounded action spaces with applica-
tions,” in Proc. 7th Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. (ICLR), 2019, pp. 1–20.
[15] Q. Wang et al., “Exponentially weighted imitation learning for batched
historical data,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. (NIPS), 2018,
pp. 6288–6297.
[16] D. Jiang, E. Ekwedike, and H. Liu, “Feedback-based tree search for
reinforcement learning,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach. Learn. (ICML), 2018,
pp. 2289–2298.
[17] L. Yu, D. Zhang, X. Chen, and X. Xie, “MOBA-slice: A time
slice
based evaluation
framework
of relative
advantage
between
teams in MOBA games,” 2018, arXiv:1807.08360. [Online]. Available:
http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.08360
[18] A. Katona et al., “Time to die: Death prediction in dota 2 using deep
learning,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Games (CoG), Aug. 2019, pp. 1–8.
[19] M. Campbell, A. J. Hoane, Jr., and F.-H. Hsu, “Deep blue,” Artif. Intell.,
vol. 134, nos. 1–2, pp. 57–83, Jan. 2002.
[20] D. Silver et al., “Mastering the game of go without human knowledge,”
Nature, vol. 550, no. 7676, p. 354, 2017.
[21] Y. Tian et al., “Elf opengo: An analysis and open reimplementation of
alphazero,” in Proc. ICML, 2019, pp. 1–13.
[22] V. Mnih et al., “Human-level control through deep reinforcement learn-
ing,” Nature, vol. 518, no. 7540, p. 529, 2015.
[23] M. Jaderberg et al., “Human-level performance in 3D multiplayer
games with population-based reinforcement learning,” Science, vol. 364,
no. 6443, pp. 859–865, May 2019.
[24] G. Lample and D. S. Chaplot, “Playing fps games with deep reinforce-
ment learning,” in Proc. AAAI, 2017, pp. 2140–2146.
[25] S. Ontanon, G. Synnaeve, A. Uriarte, F. Richoux, D. Churchill, and
M. Preuss, “A survey of real-time strategy game AI research and
competition in StarCraft,” IEEE Trans. Comput. Intell. Games, vol. 5,
no. 4, pp. 293–311, Dec. 2013.
[26] O.
Vinyals
et
al.,
“StarCraft
II:
A
new
challenge
for
rein-
forcement learning,” 2017, arXiv:1708.04782. [Online]. Available:
http://arxiv.org/abs/1708.04782
[27] J. Schulman, F. Wolski, P. Dhariwal, A. Radford, and O. Klimov,
“Proximal policy optimization algorithms,” 2017, arXiv:1707.06347.
[Online]. Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.06347
[28] D. P. Kingma and J. Ba, “Adam: A method for stochastic optimization,”
in Proc. 3rd Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. (ICLR), 2015, pp. 1–15.
[29] J. T. Morisette and S. Khorram, “Exact binomial conﬁdence interval
for proportions,” Photogramm. Eng. Remote Sens., vol. 64, no. 4,
pp. 281–282, 1998.
Deheng Ye ﬁnished his Ph.D. from the School of
Computer Science and Engineering, Nanyang Tech-
nological University, Singapore, in 2016.
He is a Researcher and Team Manager with the
Tencent AI Lab, Shenzhen, China, where he is
currently in charge of the JueWu AI Project. He is
broadly interested in applied machine learning, rein-
forcement learning, and software engineering.
Guibin Chen received the M.S. degree (cum laude)
from the Eindhoven University
of Technology,
Eindhoven, The Netherlands, in 2015.
He is currently a Researcher with the Tencent
AI Lab, Shenzhen, China. Before joining Tencent,
he was a Research Associate at Nanyang Technolog-
ical University, Singapore. He is broadly interested
in game intelligence and reinforcement learning.
Peilin
Zhao
received
the
Ph.D.
degree
from
Nanyang
Technological
University
(NTU),
Singapore.
He is currently a Researcher with the Tencent AI
Lab, Shenzhen, China. Previously, he has worked
at
Rutgers
University,
Institute
for
Infocomm
Research (I2R), and Ant Group. He has published
over 100 papers in top venues, including JMLR,
ICML, KDD, and so on. He has been invited
as a PC member, reviewer, or editor for many
conferences
and
journals,
e.g.,
ICML,
JMLR,
and so on. His research interests include online learning, recommendation
systems, automatic machine learning, deep graph learning, reinforcement
learning, and so on.
Fuhao Qiu received the B.S. and M.S. degrees
from the South China University of Technology,
Guangzhou, China, in 2012 and 2015, respectively.
He is currently a Researcher with the Tencent
AI Lab, Shenzhen, China. His research interest
is reinforcement learning, speciﬁcally exploration,
communication, and multiagent systems in games.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Tencent. Downloaded on November 25,2020 at 08:14:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
YE et al.: SL ACHIEVES HUMAN-LEVEL PERFORMANCE IN MOBA GAMES
11
Bo Yuan received the B.S. and M.S. degrees from
the Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, China,
in 2012 and 2015, respectively.
He is currently a Researcher with the Tencent AI
Lab, Shenzhen, China. His research interests include
Game AI and data analysis.
Wen Zhang received the M.S. degree from Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou, China, in 2018.
He is a Researcher with the Tencent AI Lab,
Shenzhen, China. His major interests include rein-
forcement learning, data mining, and neuroscience.
Sheng Chen received the B.S. and M.S. degrees
from the University of Science and Technology of
China, Hefei, China, in 2015 and 2018, respectively.
He is a Researcher with the Tencent AI Lab,
Shenzhen, China. His research interests include
Game AI and applied machine learning.
Mingfei Sun received the Ph.D. degree in computer
science and engineering from the Hong Kong Uni-
versity of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, in
2020.
He is currently a Post-Doctoral Researcher at
Oxford
University,
Oxford,
U.K.
(jointly
with
Microsoft Research Cambridge). Previously, he was
an Intern with the Tencent AI Lab, Shenzhen, China,
where this work was done.
Xiaoqian Li received the B.S. and M.S. degrees
from the Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin,
China, in 2014 and 2016, respectively.
She is currently a Researcher with the Tencent AI
Lab, Shenzhen, China. Her research interests include
Game AI and applied machine learning.
Siqin Li received the B.S. and M.S. degrees from
the Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, China,
in 2013 and 2015, respectively.
She is currently a Researcher with the Tencent AI
Lab, Shenzhen, China. Her research interests include
Game AI and machine learning.
Jing Liang received the B.S. and M.S. degrees from
the Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunica-
tion, Beijing, China, in 2011 and 2014, respectively.
He is a Researcher with the Tencent AI Lab,
Shenzhen, China. His research interests include
machine learning and pattern recognition.
Zhenjie Lian received the B.S. degree in computer
science from South China Agricultural University,
Guangzhou, China, in 2008.
He is a Researcher with the Tencent AI Lab,
Shenzhen, China. He is interested in system build-
ing, search engine optimization, and AI for video
games.
Bei Shi received the Ph.D. degree in computer
science from The Chinese University of Hong Kong,
Hong Kong, in 2018.
He is currently a Researcher with the Tencent
AI Lab, Shenzhen, China. His research mainly
focuses on reinforcement learning, natural language
processing, and text mining.
Liang Wang received the M.S. degree from the
Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China, in 2011.
He is currently a Researcher and Team Manager
with
the
Tencent
AI
Lab,
Shenzhen,
China.
He is broadly interested in big data analytics and
reinforcement learning.
Tengfei Shi received the B.S. degree from Xiamen
University, Xiamen, China, in 2009, and the M.S.
degree from the Beijing University of Posts and
Telecommunication, Beijing, China, in 2012.
He is an Engineer and Team Manager with the
Tencent AI Lab, Shenzhen, China. His research
interests are Game AI and large-scale learning
systems.
Qiang Fu received the B.S. and M.S. degrees from
the University of Science and Technology of China,
Hefei, China, in 2006 and 2009, respectively.
He is the Director of the Game AI Center, Tencent
AI Lab, Shenzhen, China. He has been dedicated
to machine learning, data mining, and information
retrieval for over a decade. His current research
focus is game intelligence and its applications, lever-
aging deep learning, domain data analysis, reinforce-
ment learning, and game theory.
Wei Yang received the M.S. degree from the
Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China, in 2007.
He is currently the General Manager of the
Tencent AI Lab, Shenzhen, China. He has pioneered
many inﬂuential projects in Tencent in a wide range
of domains, covering Game AI, Medical AI, search,
data mining, large-scale learning systems, and so on.
Lanxiao Huang received the B.S. and M.S. degrees
from the University of Electronic Science and Tech-
nology of China, Chengdu, China, in 2005 and 2008,
respectively.
He is the General Manager of the Tencent Timi
L1 Studio and the Executive Producer of Honor of
Kings. He focuses on game design and applications
of AI technology in video games.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Tencent. Downloaded on November 25,2020 at 08:14:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
