Data-Efﬁcient Learning for Complex and Real-Time Physical Problem
Solving using Augmented Simulation
Kei Ota1, Devesh K. Jha2, Diego Romeres2, Jeroen van Baar2, Kevin A. Smith3, Takayuki Semitsu1,
Tomoaki Oiki1, Alan Sullivan2, Daniel Nikovski2, and Joshua B. Tenenbaum3
1Mitsubishi Electric, 2Mitsubishi Electric Research Labs, 3Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Abstract— Humans quickly solve tasks in novel systems
with complex dynamics, without requiring much interaction.
While deep reinforcement learning algorithms have achieved
tremendous success in many complex tasks, these algorithms
need a large number of samples to learn meaningful policies.
In this paper, we present a task for navigating a marble to the
center of a circular maze. While this system is very intuitive
and easy for humans to solve, it can be very difﬁcult and
inefﬁcient for standard reinforcement learning algorithms to
learn meaningful policies. We present a model that learns to
move a marble in the complex environment within minutes of
interacting with the real system. Learning consists of initializing
a physics engine with parameters estimated using data from
the real system. The error in the physics engine is then
corrected using Gaussian process regression, which is used
to model the residual between real observations and physics
engine simulations. The physics engine augmented with the
residual model is then used to control the marble in the maze
environment using a model-predictive feedback over a receding
horizon. To the best of our knowledge, this is the ﬁrst time that
a hybrid model consisting of a full physics engine along with
a statistical function approximator has been used to control a
complex physical system in real-time using nonlinear model-
predictive control (NMPC).
I. INTRODUCTION
Artiﬁcial Intelligence has long had the goal of designing
robotic agents that can interact with the (complex) physical
world in ﬂexible, data-efﬁcient and generalizable ways [1], [2].
Model-based control methods form plans based on predeﬁned
models of the world dynamics. However, although data-
efﬁcient, these systems require accurate dynamics models,
which may not exist for complex tasks. Model-free methods
on the other hand rely on reinforcement learning, where the
agents simultaneously learn a model of the world dynamics
and a control policy [3], [4]. However, although these
methods can learn policies to solve tasks involving complex
dynamics, training these policies is inefﬁcient, as they require
many samples. Furthermore, these method are typically not
generalizable beyond the trained scenarios.
Our aim in this paper is to combine the best of both
methodologies: our system uses nonlinear model predictive
control with a predeﬁned (inaccurate) model of dynamics
at its core, but updates that model by learning residuals
between predictions and real-world observations via physical
parameter estimation and Gaussian process regression [5].
We take inspiration from cognitive science for this approach,
as people can interact with and manipulate novel objects well
with little or no prior experience [6]. Research suggests people
Fig. 1: We train a reinforcement learning agent that initializes
a policy with a general purpose physics engine, then corrects
its dynamics model using parameter estimation and residual
learning. The agent uses this augmented model in a circular
maze to drive a marble to the center.
have internal models of physics that are well calibrated to the
world [7], [8], and that they use these models to learn how to
use new objects to accomplish novel goals in just a handful
of interactions [9]. Thus, we suggest that any agent that can
perform ﬂexible physical problem solving should have both
prior knowledge of the dynamics of the world, as well as a
way to augment those dynamics in a way that supports their
interactions with the scene. Note that we do not suggest that
this speciﬁc approach corresponds to the way that humans
learn or reason about physics, but instead that we believe
augmented simulation is key to human sample efﬁciency, and
therefore should be important for robotic sample efﬁciency
as well. Fig. 1 provides an idea of the proposed approach.
Our testbed for this problem is a circular maze environment
(CME; see Fig. 1), in which the goal is to tip and tilt the
maze so as to move a marble from an outer ring into an inner
circle. This is an interesting domain for studying real-time
control because it is intuitively easy to pick up for people —
even children play with similar toys without prior experience
with these mazes — and yet is a complex learning domain for
artiﬁcial agents due to its constrained geometry, underactuated
control, nonlinear dynamics, and long planning horizon with
several discontinuities [10], [11]. Adding to this challenge,
the CME is a system that is usually in motion, so planning
and control must be done in real-time, or else the ball will
continue to roll in possibly unintended ways.
The learning approach we present in this paper falls
under the umbrella of Model-Based Reinforcement Learning
arXiv:2011.07193v2  [cs.LG]  16 Feb 2021

(MBRL). In MBRL, a task-agnostic predictive model of
the system dynamics is learned from exploration data. This
model is then used to synthesize a controller which is used
to perform the desired task using a suitable cost function.
The model in our case is represented by a physics engine
that roughly describes the CME with its physical properties.
Additionally, we learn the residual between the actual system
and the physics system using Gaussian process regression [5].
Such an augmented simulator – a combination of a physics
engine and a statistical function approximator – allows us
to efﬁciently learn models for physical systems while using
minimal domain knowledge.
Contributions. Our main contributions are as follows:
• We present a novel framework where a hybrid model
consisting of a full physics engine augmented with a
machine learning model is used to control a complex
physical system using NMPC in real time.
• We demonstrate that our proposed approach leads to
sample-efﬁcient learning in the CME: our agent learns to
solve the maze within a couple of minutes of interaction.
We have released our code for the CME as it is a complex,
low-dimensional system that can be used to study real-time
physical control1.
II. RELATED WORK
Our work is motivated by the recent advances in (deep)
reinforcement learning to solve complex tasks in areas such as
computer games [12] and robotics [3], [13]. While these algo-
rithms have been very successful for solving simulated tasks,
their applicability in real systems is sometimes questionable
due to their relative sample inefﬁciency. This has motivated
a lot of research in the area of transferring knowledge from
a simulation environment to the real world [14], [15], [16],
[10]. However, most of these techniques end up being very
data intensive. Here we attempt to study complex physical
puzzles using model-based agents in an attempt to learn to
interact with the world in a sample-efﬁcient manner.
Recently the robotics community has seen a surge in
interest in the use of general-purpose physics engines which
can represent complex, multi-body dynamics [17]. These
engines have been developed with the intention to allow
real-time control of robotic systems while using them as
an approximation of the physical world. However, these
simulators still cannot model or represent the physical system
accurately enough for control, and this has driven a lot of
work in the area of sim-to-real transfer [18], [19]. The goal
of these methods is to train an agent in simulation and then
transfer them to the real system using minimum involvement
of the real system during training. However, most of these
approaches use a model-free learning approach and thus tend
to be sample inefﬁcient. In contrast, we propose a method
that trains a MBRL sim-to-real agent and thus achieves very
good sample efﬁciency.
The idea of using residual models for model correction, or
hybrid learning models for control of physical systems during
1https://www.merl.com/research/license/CME
learning in physical systems has also been studied in the
past [20], [21], [22], [11], [23]. However, most of these studies
use prior physics information in the form of differential
equations, which requires domain expertise and thus the
methods also become very domain speciﬁc. While we rely
on some amount of domain expertise and assumptions, using
a general purpose physics engine to represent the physical
system will allow for more readily generalization across a
wide range of systems.
A similar CME has been solved with MBRL and deep
reinforcement learning, in [11] and [10], respectively. In [11],
the analytical equations of motion of the CME have been
derived to learn a semi-parametric GP model [24], [25] of
the system, and then combined with an optimal controller.
In [10], a sim-to-real approach has been proposed, where a
policy to control the marble(s) is learned on a simulator from
images, and then transferred to the real CME. However, the
transfer learning still requires a large amount of data from
the real CME.
While approaches that combine physical predictions and
residuals have been used for control in the past [26], here we
demonstrate that this combination can be used as part of a
model-predictive controller (MPC) of a much more complex
system in real-time. An important point to note here is that the
work presented in [26] uses MPC in a discrete action space,
whereas for the current system we have to use nonlinear
model-predictive control (NMPC) that requires a solution to
a nonlinear, continuous control problem in real-time (which
requires non-trivial, compute-expensive optimization) [27].
Consequently, the present study deals with a more complicated
learning and control problem that is relevant to a wide range
of robotic systems.
III. PROBLEM FORMULATION
We consider the problem of moving the marble to the center
of the CME. Our goal is to study the sim-to-real problem in
a model-based setting where an agent uses a physics engine
as its initial knowledge of the environment’s physics. Under
these settings, we study and attempt to answer the following
questions in the present paper.
1) What is needed in a model-based sim-to-real architec-
ture for efﬁcient learning in physical systems?
2) How can we design a sim-to-real agent that behaves
and learns in a data-efﬁcient manner?
3) How does the performance and learning of our agent
compare against how humans learn to solve these tasks?
We use the CME as our test environment for the studies
presented in this paper. However, our models and controller
design are general-purpose and thus, we expect the proposed
techniques could ﬁnd generalized use in robotic systems. For
the rest of the paper, we call the CME together with the tip-
tilt platform the circular maze system (CMS). At this point,
we would like to note that we make some simpliﬁcations for
the CMS to model actuation delays and tackle discontinuities
for controller design as we describe in the following text.
The goal of the learning agent is to learn an accurate model
of the marble dynamics, that can be used in a controller,

π(uk|xk), in a model-predictive fashion which allows the
CMS to choose an action uk given the state observation
xk to drive a marble from an initial condition to the target
state. We assume that the system is fully deﬁned by the
combination of the state xk and the control inputs uk, and
it evolves according to the dynamics p(xk+1|xk, uk) which
are composed of the marble dynamics in the maze and the
tip-tilt platform dynamics.
As a simpliﬁcation, we assume that the marble dynamics is
independent of the radial dynamics in each of the individual
rings, i.e., we quantize the radius of the marble position
into the 4 rings of the maze. We include the orientation of
the tip-tilt platform as part of the state for our dynamical
system, obtaining a ﬁve-dimensional state representation for
the system, i.e., x = (rd, β, γ, θ, ˙θ, ). It can be noted that
the radius rd is a discrete variable, whereas the rest of the
state variables are continuous. The terms β, γ represent the
X and Y -orientation of the maze platform, respectively, and
θ, ˙θ represent the angular position and velocity of the marble,
measured with respect to a ﬁxed frame of reference. Since
rd is ﬁxed for each ring of the CME, we remove rd from
the state representation of the CMS for the rest of the paper.
Thus, the state is represented by a four-dimensional vector
x = (β, γ, θ, ˙θ). The angles β, γ are measured using a laser
sensor that is mounted on the tip-tilt platform (see Figure 1)
while the state of the ball could be observed from a camera
mounted above the CMS. For more details, interested readers
are referred to [11].
We assume that there is a discrete planner, which can return
a sequence of gates that the marble can then follow to move
to the center. Furthermore, from the human experiments we
have observed that human subjects always try to bring the
marble in front of the gate, and then tilt the CME to move it
to the next ring. Therefore, we design a lower level controller
to move the marble to the next ring when the marble is placed
in front of the gate to the next ring. Thus, the task of the
learned controller is to move the marble in a controlled way
so that it can transition through the sequence of gates to reach
the center of the CME. This makes our underlying control
problem tractable by avoiding discontinuities in the marble
movement (as the marble moves from one ring to the next).
Before describing our approach, we introduce additional
nomenclature we will use in this paper. We represent the
physics engine by f PE, the residual dynamics model by f GP,
and the real system model by f real, such that f real(xk, uk) ≈
f PE(xk, uk) + f GP(xk, uk). We use MuJoCo [17] as the
physics engine, however, we note that our approach is agnostic
to the choice of physics engine. In the following sections, we
describe how we design our sim-to-real agent in simulation,
as well as on the real system.
IV. APPROACH
Our approach for designing the learning agent is inspired
by human physical reasoning: people can solve novel manip-
ulation tasks with a handful of trials. This is mainly because
we rely on already-learned notions of physics. Following a
similar principle, we design an agent whose notion of physics
comes from a physics engine. The proposed approach is
shown as a schematic in Fig. 2.
We want to design a sim-to-real agent, which can bridge
the gap between the simulation environment and the real
world in a principled fashion. The gap between the sim-
ulated environment and the real world can be attributed
to mainly two factors. First, physics engines represent an
approximation of the physics of the real systems, because
they are designed based on limited laws of physics, domain
knowledge, and convenient approximations often made for
mathematical tractability. Second, there are additional errors
due to system-level problems, such as observation noise and
delays, actuation noise and delays, ﬁnite computation time
to update controllers based on observations, etc.
Consequently, we train our agent by ﬁrst estimating the
parameters of the physics engine, and then compensate for the
different system-level problems as the agent tries to interact
with the real system. Finally, Gaussian process Regression
is used to model the residual dynamics of the real system
that cannot be described by the best estimated parameters of
the physics engine. In the rest of this section, we describe
the details of the physics engine for the CME, and provide
our approach for correcting the physics engine as well as
modeling other system-level issues with the CMS.
A. Physics Engine Model Description
As described earlier, we use MuJoCo as our physics engine,
f PE. Note that in our model we ignore the radial movement
of the marble in each ring, and describe the state only with
the angular position of the marble as described in Sec. III.
Consequently, we restrict the physics engine to consider only
the angular dynamics of the marble in each ring, i.e., the
radius of the marble position is ﬁxed. However, in order
to study the performance of the agent in simulation, we
also create a full model of the CME where the marble does
not have the angular state constraint. Thus, we create two
different physics engine models: f PE
red represents the reduced
physics engine available to our RL model, and f PE
full uses the
full internal state of the simulator. f PE
red differs from f PE
full in
two key ways. In the forward dynamics of the f PE
red model,
we set the location of the marble to be in the center of each
ring because we cannot observe the accurate radial location
of the marble in the real system, while this is tracked in f PE
full.
Additionally, because we cannot observe the spin of the ball
in real experiments, we do not include it in f PE
red, while it is
included in f PE
full. We use this f PE
full model for analyzing the
behavior of our agent in the preliminary studies in simulation.
This serves as an analog to the real system in the simulation
studies we present in the paper. We call this set of experiments
sim-to-sim. These experiments are done to determine whether
the agent can successfully adapt its physics engine when
initialized with an approximation of a more complicated
environment.
B. Model Learning
We consider a discrete-time system:
xk+1 = f(xk, uk) + ek,
(1)

Fig. 2: The learning approach used in this paper to create a predictive model for the physics of the CME in the real system.
We create a predictive model for the marble dynamics in the CME using a physics engine. We start with a MuJoCo-based
physics engine (PE) with random initial parameters for dynamics, and estimate these parameters µ∗from the residual error
between simulated and real CME using CMA-ES. The remaining residual error between simulated and real CME is then
compensated using Gaussian process (GP) regression during iterative learning. Finally, we use the augmented simulation
model to control the real CME with NMPC policy.
Algorithm 1 Model learning procedure
1: Collect N episodes in the real system using Alg. 2
2: Compute simulator trajectories as f PE
red,µ(xreal
k , ureal
k ), from
the real system N episodes
3: Estimate physical parameters using CMA-ES
4: while Model performance not converged do
5:
Collect N episodes in CMS using Alg. 2
6:
Compute simulator trajectories xsim
k+1 for data in D
7:
Train residual GP model
8: end while
where xk ∈R4 denotes the state, uk ∈R2 the actions, and
ek is assumed to be a zero mean white Gaussian noise with
diagonal covariance, at the discrete time instant k ∈[1, ..., T].
In the proposed approach, the unknown dynamics f in
Eq. 1 represents the CMS dynamics, f real, and it is modeled
as the sum of two components:
f real(xk, uk) ≈f PE
red(xk, uk) + f GP(xk, uk),
(2)
where f PE
red denotes the physics engine model deﬁned in the
previous section, and f GP denotes a Gaussian process model
that learns the residual between real dynamics and simulator
dynamics. We learn both the components f PE
red and f GP to
improve model accuracy. The approach is presented as psuedo-
code in Algorithm 1 and described as follows.
1) Physical Parameter Estimation: We ﬁrst estimate phys-
ical parameters of the real system. As measuring physical
parameters directly in the real system is difﬁcult, we estimate
four friction parameters of MuJoCo by using CMA-ES [28].
More formally, we denote the physical parameters as µ ∈R4,
and the physics engine with the parameters as f PE
red,µ.
As described in Algorithm 1, we ﬁrst collect multiple
episodes with the real system using the NMPC controller
described in Sec. IV-D. Then, CMA-ES is used to estimate
the best friction parameters µ∗that minimizes the difference
between the movement of the marble in the real system and
Algorithm 2 Rollout an episode using NMPC
1: Initialize time index k ←0
2: Reset the real system by randomly placing the marble to
outermost ring
3: while The marble does not reach innermost ring and not
exceed time limit do
4:
Set real state to simulator xsim
k
←xreal
k
5:
Compute trajectory (Xsim, U sim) using NMPC
6:
Apply initial action ureal
k
= usim
0
to the real system
7:
Store transition D ←D ∪{xreal
k , ureal
k , xreal
k+1}
8:
Increment time step k ←k + 1
9: end while
in simulation as:
µ∗= arg min
µ
1
∥D∥
X
(xreal
k ,ureal
k ,xreal
k+1)∈D
∥xreal
k+1 −f PE
red,µ(xreal
k , ureal
k )∥2
Wµ,
(3)
where D represents the collected transitions in the real system,
Wµ is the weight matrix whose value is 1 only related to the
angular position term of the marble θk+1 in the state xk+1.
2) Residual Model Learning Using Gaussian Process:
After estimating the physical parameters, a mismatch remains
between the simulator and the real system because of the
modeling limitations described in the beginning of this section.
To get a more accurate model, we train a Gaussian Process
(GP) model via marginal likelihood maximization [5], with a
standard linear kernel, to learn the residual between the two
systems by minimizing the following objective:
LGP = 1
∥D∥
X
(xreal
k ,ureal
k ,xreal
k+1)∈D
∥
 xreal
k+1 −f PE
red,µ∗(xreal
k , ureal
k )

−f GP(xreal
k , ureal
k )∥2.
(4)
Note that after collecting the trajectories in the real sys-
tem, we collect the simulator estimates of the next state

xsim
k+1 using the physics engine with the estimated physical
parameters µ∗. This is done by resetting the state of the
simulator to every state xreal
k
along the collected trajec-
tory and applying the action ureal
k
to obtain the resulted
next state xsim
k+1 = f PE
red,µ∗(xreal
k , ureal
k ), and store the tuple
{xreal
k , ureal
k , xsim
k+1}. Thus, the GPs learn the input-output
relationship: f GP(xreal
k , ureal
k ) = xreal
k+1 −xsim
k+1. Two indepen-
dent GP models are trained, one each for the position and
velocity of the marble. We found GP models ideal for this
system because of their accuracy in data prediction and data
efﬁciency which is fundamental when working with real
systems. However, other machine learning models could be
adopted in different applications.
3) Modeling Motor Behavior: The tip-tilt platform in the
CMS is actuated by hobby-grade servo motors which work
in position control mode. These motors use a controller with
a ﬁnite settling time which is longer than the control interval
used in our experiments. This results in actuation delays
for the action computed by any control algorithm, and the
platform always has non-zero velocity. The physics engine,
on the other hand, works in discrete time and thus the CME
comes to a complete rest after completing a given action
in a control interval. Consequently, there is a discrepancy
between the simulation and the real system in the sense that
the real system gets delayed actions. Such actuation delays
are common in most (robotic) control systems and thus, needs
to be considered during controller design for any application.
To compensate for this problem, we learn an inverse model
for motor actuation. This inverse model of the motor predicts
the action to be sent to the motors for the tip-tilt platform to
achieve a desired state (βdes
k+1, γdes
k+1) given the current state
(βk, γk) at instant k. Thus, the control signals computed by
the optimization process are passed through this function that
generates the commands (ux, uy) for the servo motors. We
represent this inverse motor model by fimm. The motor model
fimm is learned using a standard autoregressive model with
external input. This is learned by collecting motor response
data by exciting the CMS using sinusoidal inputs for the
motors before the model learning procedure in Algorithm 1.
C. Trajectory Optimization using iLQR
We use the iterative LQR (iLQR) as the optimization
algorithm for model-based control [29]. While there exist
optimization solvers which can generate better optimal
solutions for model-based control [30], we use iLQR as it
provides a compute-efﬁcient way of solving the optimization
problem for designing the controller. Formally, we solve the
following trajectory optimization problem to manipulate the
controls uk over a certain number of time steps [T −1]
min
xk,uk
X
k∈[T ]
ℓ(xk, uk)
s.t. xk+1 = f(xk, uk)
x0 = ˜x0.
(5)
For the state cost, we use a quadratic cost function for the
state error measured from the target state xtarget (which in the
current case is the nearest gate for the marble), as represented
by the following equation:
ℓ(x) = ||x −xtarget||2
W ,
(6)
where the matrix W represents weights used for different
states. For the control cost, we penalize the control using a
quadratic cost as well, given by the following equation:
ℓ(u) = λu∥u∥2.
(7)
Other smoother versions of the cost function [29] did not
change the behavior of the iLQR optimization. The discrete-
time dynamics xk+1 = f(xk, uk) and the cost function
are used to compute locally linear models and a quadratic
cost function for the system along a trajectory. These linear
models are then used to compute optimal control inputs and
local gain matrices by iteratively solving the associated LQR
problem. For more details of iLQR, interested readers are
referred to [29]. The solution to the trajectory optimization
problem returns an optimal sequence of states and control
inputs for the system to follow. We call this the reference
trajectory for the system, denoted by Xref ≡x0, x1, . . . , xT ,
and U ref ≡u0, u1, . . . , uT −1. The matrix W used for the
experiments is diagonal, W = diag(4, 4, 1, 0.4) and λu =
20. These weights were tuned empirically only once at the
beginning of learning.
D. Online Control using Nonlinear Model-Predictive Control
While it is easy to control the movement of the marble
in the simulation environment, controlling the movement of
the marble in the real system is much more challenging.
This is mainly due to complications such as static friction
(which remains poorly modeled by the physics engine), or
delays in actuation. As a result, the real system requires
online model-based feedback control. While re-computing
an entire new trajectory upon a new observation would be
the optimal strategy, due to lack of computation time in the
real system, we use a trajectory-tracking MPC controller. We
use an iLQR-based NMPC controller to track the trajectory
obtained from the trajectory optimization module to control
the system in real-time. The controller uses the least-squares
tracking cost function given by the following equation:
ℓtracking(x) = ∥xk −xref
k ∥2
Q,
(8)
where xk is the system state at instant k, xref
k is the reference
state at instant k, and the matrix Q is a weight matrix. The
matrix Q and the cost coefﬁcient for control are kept the
same as during trajectory optimization. The system trajectory
is rolled out forward in time from the observed state, and the
objective in Eq. 8 is minimized to obtain the desired control
signals.
We implement the control on both the real and the
simulation environment at a control rate of 30 Hz. As a
result, there is not enough time for the optimizer to converge
to the optimal feedback solution. Thus, we warm-start the
optimizer with a previously computed trajectory. Furthermore,
the derivatives during the system linearization in the backward
step of iLQR and the forward rollout of the iLQR are

Fig. 3: Comparison of real trajectories (red), predicted tra-
jectories (blue) using the estimated physical properties using
CMA-ES, and trajectories using the default physical properties
(green) in the sim-to-sim experiment. The trajectories are
generated with a random policy from random initial points.
obtained using parallel computing in order to satisfy the
time constraints to compute the feedback step.
V. EXPERIMENTS
In this section we test how our proposed approach performs
on the CMS, and how it compares to human performance.
A. Physical Property Estimation using CMA-ES
We ﬁrst demonstrate how physical parameter estimation
works in two different environments; sim-to-sim and sim-to-
real settings. For sim-to-sim setting, we regard the full model
f PE
full as a real system because it contains full internal state that
is difﬁcult to observe in the real setup as described in Sec. IV-
A. Also, we regard the reduced model f PE
red, which has the same
state that can be observed in the real system, as a simulator.
For f PE
red, we start with default values given by MuJoCo, and
we set smaller friction parameters to f PE
full in the sim-to-sim
setting, because we found the real maze board is much more
slippery than what default MuJoCo’s parameters would imply.
For sim-to-real setting, we measure the difference between
the real system and the reduced model f PE
red.
To verify the performance of physical parameter estimation,
we collected samples using the NMPC controller computed
using current f PE
red models on both settings, which corresponds
to line 1-3 of Algorithm 1, and found the objective deﬁned in
equation 3 converges only ∼10 transitions for each ring. For
sim-to-sim experiment, the RMSE of ball location θ in two
dynamics becomes ≈2e −3 [rad] (≈0.1 [deg]), which we
conclude the CMA-ES produces accurate enough parameters.
Figure 3 shows the real trajectories obtained by f PE
full (in
red), simulated trajectories obtained by f PE
red with optimized
friction parameters (in blue), and simulated trajectories before
estimating friction parameters (in green). This qualitatively
shows that the estimated friction parameters successfully
bridge the gap between two different dynamics. Since tuning
friction parameters for MuJoCo is not intuitive, it is evident
that we can rely on CMA-ES to determine more optimal
friction parameters instead. Similarly, we ﬁnd that sim-to-real
experiment, the RMSE of ball position θ between the physics
engine and real system decreased to ≈9e −3 [rad] after
CMA-ES optimization. However, we believe this error still
0
10
20
30
Ring1 (outer)
Ring2
Ring3
Ring4 (inner)
Ring
Average Time (s)
Model
CMA−ES
CMA−ES + GP1
CMA−ES + GP2
CMA−ES + GP3
Fig. 4: Comparison of average time spent by the marble in
each ring during learning and the corresponding standard
deviation over 10 trials. This plot shows the improvement in
the performance of the controller upon learning of the residual
model. Note that the controller completely fails without CMA-
ES initialization, and thus, those results are not included.
diverges in rollout and we still suffer from static friction.
We also observed that CMA-ES optimization in the sim-to-
real experiments quickly ﬁnds a local minima with very few
samples, and further warm starting the optimization with
more data results in another set of parameters for the physics
engine with similar discrepancy between the physics engine
and the real system. Thus, we perform the CMA-ES parameter
estimation only once in the beginning and more ﬁnetuning
to GP regression.
B. Control Performance on Real System
We found the sim-to-sim agent learns to perform well with
just CMA-ES ﬁnetuning, and thus we skip further control
results for the sim-to-sim agent, and only present results on
the real system with additional residual learning for improved
performance. While CMA-ES works well in the sim-to-sim
transfer problem, if we want a robot to solve the CME,
there will necessarily be differences between the internal
model and real-world dynamics. We take inspiration from
how people understand dynamics – they can both capture
physical properties of items in the world, and also learn the
dynamics of arbitrary objects and scenes. For this reason we
augmented the CMA-ES model with machine learning data-
driven models that can improve the model accuracy as more
experience (data) is acquired. We opted for GP as data-driven
models because of their high ﬂexibility in describing data
distribution and data efﬁciency [31].
The CMA-ES model is then iteratively improved with the
GP residual model with data from 5 rollouts in each iteration.
In the following text, ‘CMA-ES’ represents the CMA-ES
model without any residual modeling, while ‘CMA-ES +
GP1’ represents a model that has learned a residual model
from 5 rollouts of the ‘CMA-ES’ model. Similarly, ‘CMA-ES
+ GP2’ and ‘CMA-ES + GP3’ learn the residual distribution
from 10 experiments (5 with ‘CMA-ES’ and 5 with ‘CMA-
ES + GP1’) and 15 experiments (5 each from ‘CMA-ES’,

’CMA-ES + GP1’ and ‘CMA-ES + GP2’), respectively. The
trajectory optimization and tracking uses the mean prediction
from the GP models.
Figure 4 shows the time spent in each ring averaged over 10
different rollouts at each iteration during training. As expected,
models trained with a larger amount of data consistently
improve the performance, i.e., spending less time in each
ring. The improvement in performance can be seen especially
in the outermost (Ring1; F(3, 36) = 3.02, p = 0.042) and
innermost ring (Ring4; F(3, 36) = 4.52, p = 0.009).2 The
outermost ring has the largest radius and is more prone to
oscillations, which the model learns to control. Similarly, in
the innermost ring, static friction causes small actions to have
larger effects.
C. Comparison with Human Performance
To compare our system’s performance against human
learning, we asked 15 participants to perform a similar CME
task. These participants were other members of the Mitsubishi
Electric Research Laboratories who were not involved in this
project and were naive to the intent of the experiment. The
particpants were instructed to solve the CME ﬁve consecutive
times. A 2 DoF joystick was provided to control the two
servo motors of the same experimental setup on which the
learning algorithm was trained. To familiarize participants
with the joystick control, they were given one minute to
interact with the maze—without marble. Because people can
adapt to even unnatural joystick mappings within minutes
[33], we assumed that this familiarization would provide a
reasonable control mapping for our participants, similar to
how the model pre-learned the inverse motor model fimm
without learning ball dynamics. Since we found no reliable
evidence of improvement throughout the trials (see below),
we believe that any further motor control learning beyond
this period was at most marginal. Three participants had
prior experience solving the CME in the "convential" way
by holding it with both hands.
Afterwards, the ball was placed at a random point in the
outermost ring, and participants were asked to guide the ball
to the center of the maze. They were asked to solve the CME
ﬁve times, and we recorded how long they took for each
solution and how much time the ball spent in each ring. Two
participants were excluded from analysis because they could
not solve the maze ﬁve times within the 15 minutes allotted
to them.
Because people were given ﬁve maze attempts (and thus
between zero and four prior chances to learn during each
attempt), we compare human performance against the CMA-
ES and CMA-ES+GP1 versions of our model that have
comparable amounts of training.
We ﬁnd that while there was a slight numerical decrease in
participants’ solution times over the course of the ﬁve trials,
this did not reach statistical reliability (χ2(1) = 1.63, p =
0.2): participants spent an average of 110 seconds (95%CI :
2Due to extreme heteroscedasticity in the data we use White’s corrected
estimators in the ANOVA [32].
TABLE I: Average time spent in each ring [sec].
Human
CMA-ES + GP0/1
Ring 1 (outermost ring)
22.6
4.18
Ring 2
8.0
3.87
Ring 3
24.3
3.85
Ring 4 (innermost ring)
41.1
18.29
[66, 153]) to solve the maze the ﬁrst time, and 79 seconds
(95%CI : [38, 120]) to solve the maze the last time, and only
8 of 13 participants solved the maze faster on the last trial as
compared to their ﬁrst. This is similar to the learning pattern
found in our model, where the solution time decreased from
33s using CMA-ES to 27s using CMA-ES+GP1, which was
also not statistically reliable (t(15) = 0.56, p = 0.58).
In addition, Table I shows the time that people and the
model kept the ball in each ring. For statistical power we
have averaged over all human attempts, and across CMA-
ES and CMA-ES + GP1 to equate to human learning. In
debrieﬁng interviews, participants indicated that they found
that solving the innermost ring was the most difﬁcult, as
indicated by spending more time in that ring than any others
(all ps < 0.05 by Tukey HSD pairwise comparisons). This is
likely because small movements will have the largest effect
on the marble’s radial position, requiring precise prediction
and control. Similar to people, the model also spends the most
time in the inner ring (all ps < 0.002 by Tukey HSD pairwise
comparisons), suggesting that it shares similar prediction
and control challenges to people. In contrast, a fully trained
standard reinforcement learning algorithm – the soft actor-
critic (SAC) [34] – learns a different type of control policy
in simulation and spends the least amount of time in the
innermost ring, since the marble has the shortest distance to
travel (see Supplemental Materials for more detail).
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
We take inspiration from cognitive science to build an agent
that can plan its actions using an augmented simulator in
order to learn to control its environment in a sample-efﬁcient
manner. We presented a learning method for navigating a
marble in a complex circular maze environment. Learning
consists of initializing a physics engine, where the physics
parameters are initially estimated using the real system. The
error in the physics engine is then compensated using a
Gaussian process regression model which is used to model
the residual dynamics. These models are used to control the
marble in the maze environment using iLQR in a feedback
MPC fashion. We showed that the proposed method can learn
to solve the task of driving the marble to the center of the
maze within a few minutes of interacting with the system,
in contrast to traditional reinforcement systems that are data-
hungry in simulation and cannot learn a good policy on a
real robot.
To implement our approach on the CMS, we made some
simpliﬁcations that are only applicable to the CMS, e.g.,
that the problem can be segmented into moving through
the gates in the rings. While this does limit the generality

of the speciﬁc model used, most physical systems require
some degree of domain knowledge to design an efﬁcient
and reliable control system. Nonetheless, we believe our
approach is a step towards learning general-purpose, data-
efﬁcient controllers for complex robotic systems. One of the
beneﬁts of our approach is its ﬂexibility: because it learns
based off of a general-purpose physics engine, this approach
should generalize well to other real-time physical control
tasks. Furthermore, the separation of the dynamics and control
policy should facilitate transfer learning. If the maze material
or ball were changed (e.g., replacing it with a small die or
coin), then the physical properties and residual model would
need to be quickly relearned, but the control policy should
be relatively similar.
In future work, we plan to test the
generality and transfer of this approach to different mazes
and marbles. For more effective use of physics engines for
these kind of problems, we would like to interface general-
purpose robotics optimization software [35] to make it more
useful for general-purpose robotics application.
REFERENCES
[1] Kuan Fang, Yuke Zhu, Animesh Garg, Andrey Kurenkov, Viraj Mehta,
Li Fei-Fei, and Silvio Savarese. Learning task-oriented grasping for
tool manipulation from simulated self-supervision:. The International
Journal of Robotics Research, 2019.
[2] Marc Toussaint, Kelsey R. Allen, Kevin A. Smith, and Joshua B.
Tenenbaum. Differentiable Physics and Stable Modes for Tool-Use
and Manipulation Planning. In Robotics: Science and Systems XIV.
Robotics: Science and Systems Foundation, 2018.
[3] Sergey Levine, Chelsea Finn, Trevor Darrell, and Pieter Abbeel. End-
to-end training of deep visuomotor policies. The Journal of Machine
Learning Research, 17(1):1334–1373, 2016.
[4] Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, Nicolas Heess, Jost Tobias Springenberg,
Josh Merel, Martin Riedmiller, Raia Hadsell, and Peter Battaglia.
Graph networks as learnable physics engines for inference and control.
volume 80 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 4470–
4479, Stockholmsmässan, Stockholm Sweden, 10–15 Jul 2018. PMLR.
[5] Christopher KI Williams and Carl Edward Rasmussen.
Gaussian
processes for machine learning. MIT press Cambridge, MA, 2006.
[6] François Osiurak and Dietmar Heinke. Looking for intoolligence:
A uniﬁed framework for the cognitive study of human tool use and
technology. American Psychologist, 73(2):169–185, 2018.
[7] Peter W. Battaglia, Jessica B. Hamrick, and Joshua B. Tenenbaum.
Simulation as an engine of physical scene understanding. Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences, 110(45):18327–18332, 2013.
[8] Kevin A. Smith, Peter W. Battaglia, and Edward Vul. Different Physical
Intuitions Exist Between Tasks, Not Domains. Computational Brain
& Behavior, 1(2):101–118, 2018.
[9] Kelsey R. Allen, Kevin A. Smith, and Joshua B. Tenenbaum. Rapid
trial-and-error learning with simulation supports ﬂexible tool use and
physical reasoning. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,
117(47):29302–29310, 2020.
[10] J. v. Baar, A. Sullivan, R. Corcodel, D. Jha, D. Romeres, and
D. Nikovski. Sim-to-real transfer learning using robustiﬁed controllers
in robotic tasks involving complex dynamics. In ICRA, May 2019.
[11] D. Romeres, D. K. Jha, A. DallaLibera, B. Yerazunis, and D. Nikovski.
Semiparametrical gaussian processes learning of forward dynamical
models for navigating in a circular maze. In 2019 ICRA, May 2019.
[12] Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Andrei A Rusu,
Joel Veness, Marc G Bellemare, Alex Graves, Martin Riedmiller,
Andreas K Fidjeland, Georg Ostrovski, et al. Human-level control
through deep reinforcement learning. Nature, 518(7540):529, 2015.
[13] John Schulman, Sergey Levine, Pieter Abbeel, Michael I Jordan, and
Philipp Moritz. Trust region policy optimization. In Icml, volume 37,
pages 1889–1897, 2015.
[14] Stephen James, Andrew J. Davison, and Edward Johns. Transferring
end-to-end visuomotor control from simulation to real world for a
multi-stage task. volume 78 of Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research, pages 334–343. PMLR, 13–15 Nov 2017.
[15] Florian Golemo, Adrien Ali Taiga, Aaron Courville, and Pierre-Yves
Oudeyer. Sim-to-real transfer with neural-augmented robot simulation.
In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 817–828, 2018.
[16] Xue Bin Peng, Marcin Andrychowicz, Wojciech Zaremba, and Pieter
Abbeel.
Sim-to-real transfer of robotic control with dynamics
randomization. In 2018 ICRA, pages 1–8. IEEE, 2018.
[17] E. Todorov, T. Erez, and Y. Tassa. Mujoco: A physics engine for
model-based control. In 2012 IROS, pages 5026–5033, Oct 2012.
[18] J. Tobin, R. Fong, A. Ray, J. Schneider, W. Zaremba, and P. Abbeel.
Domain randomization for transferring deep neural networks from
simulation to the real world. In 2017 IROS, pages 23–30, 2017.
[19] Fabio Ramos, Rafael Possas, and Dieter Fox. Bayessim: Adaptive
domain randomization via probabilistic inference for robotics simulators.
In Robotics: Science and Systems, 2019.
[20] Lukas Hewing, Juraj Kabzan, and Melanie N Zeilinger. Cautious model
predictive control using gaussian process regression. IEEE Transactions
on Control Systems Technology, 2019.
[21] Matteo Saveriano, Yuchao Yin, Pietro Falco, and Dongheui Lee. Data-
efﬁcient control policy search using residual dynamics learning. In
2017 IROS, pages 4709–4715. IEEE, 2017.
[22] Anurag Ajay, Jiajun Wu, Nima Fazeli, Maria Bauza, Leslie P Kaelbling,
Joshua B Tenenbaum, and Alberto Rodriguez. Augmenting physical
simulators with stochastic neural networks: Case study of planar
pushing and bouncing. In 2018 IROS, pages 3066–3073. IEEE, 2018.
[23] Tingfan Wu and Javier Movellan. Semi-parametric gaussian process
for robot system identiﬁcation. In IROS, pages 725–731. IEEE, 2012.
[24] D. Romeres, M. Zorzi, R. Camoriano, and A. Chiuso. Online semi-
parametric learning for inverse dynamics modeling. In IEEE 55th
Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pages 2945–2950, 2016.
[25] D. Nguyen-Tuong and J. Peters. Using model knowledge for learning
inverse dynamics. In 2010 ICRA, pages 2677–2682, 2010.
[26] Anurag Ajay, Maria Bauza, Jiajun Wu, Nima Fazeli, Joshua B
Tenenbaum, Alberto Rodriguez, and Leslie P Kaelbling. Combining
physical simulators and object-based networks for control.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:1904.06580, 2019.
[27] Moritz Diehl, Hans Joachim Ferreau, and Niels Haverbeke. Efﬁcient
numerical methods for nonlinear mpc and moving horizon estimation.
In Nonlinear model predictive control, pages 391–417. Springer, 2009.
[28] Nikolaus Hansen. The cma evolution strategy: a comparing review. In
Towards a new evolutionary computation. Springer, 2006.
[29] Yuval Tassa, Tom Erez, and Emanuel Todorov. Synthesis and stabi-
lization of complex behaviors through online trajectory optimization.
In 2012 IROS. IEEE, 2012.
[30] John T Betts. Survey of numerical methods for trajectory optimization.
Journal of guidance, control, and dynamics, 21(2):193–207, 1998.
[31] A. Dalla Libera, D. Romeres, D. K. Jha, B. Yerazunis, and D. Nikovski.
Model-based reinforcement learning for physical systems without
velocity and acceleration measurements. IEEE Robotics and Automation
Letters, 5(2):3548–3555, 2020.
[32] Halbert White.
A heteroskedasticity-consistent covariance matrix
estimator and a direct test for heteroskedasticity. Econometrica: journal
of the Econometric Society, pages 817–838, 1980.
[33] Otmar Bock, Stefan Schneider, and Jacob Bloomberg. Conditions
for interference versus facilitation during sequential sensorimotor
adaptation. Experimental Brain Research, 138(3):359–365, 2001.
[34] Tuomas Haarnoja, Aurick Zhou, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey Levine. Soft
actor-critic: Off-policy maximum entropy deep reinforcement learning
with a stochastic actor. In ICML, pages 1861–1870. PMLR, 2018.
[35] Russ Tedrake and the Drake Development Team. Drake: Model-based
design and veriﬁcation for robotics, 2019.
[36] Mujoco. http://www.mujoco.org/. Accessed: 2020-01-31.
APPENDIX
A. Control Performance on Simulation
In order to compare the performance of our approach and a
model-free RL algorithm, we train a SAC [34] agent with f PE
full
dynamics in simulation. The hyperparameters, architectures,
activation function of SAC are the same as used in [34]. We
also evaluate the performance of our method in sim-to-sim
setting, which omits the GP part because CMA-ES quickly

TABLE II: Average time spent each ring in simulation [sec].
CMA-ES
SAC
Ring 1 (outermost ring)
1.50
0.78
Ring 2
1.00
0.83
Ring 3
2.60
0.86
Ring 4 (innermost ring)
7.17
0.73
TABLE III: Physical parameters used in sim-to-sim experi-
ments. The f PE
red uses default parameters of MuJoCo, whereas
the f PE
full is more slippery, because we found that the real
model is actually more slippery than what default parameters
would imply [36].
fPE
full
fPE
red
Slide friction
1e −3
1
Spin friction
1e −6
5e −3
Roll friction
1e −7
1e −4
Friction loss
1e −6
0
matches the behavior of the simulator in the sim-to-sim setting,
as described in Sec. V-A.3
Table. II shows the average time spent in each ring for both
methods. The SAC model solves the maze faster than the
CMA-ES algorithm, but does so by speeding the ball through
each ring in approximately equal time, unlike both CMA-
ES and people. This is likely because the SAC agent had
extensive experience to learn its control policy: it was trained
for ﬁve million steps on the simulator, which is equivalent
to approximately two days training time if done on a real
system.
B. MuJoCo Model Setting
As written in Sec. IV-A, we prepare two different physics
engine models: f PE
red and f PE
full. Table. III summarizes the friction
parameters µ used for each environment. We note that these
initial parameters are optimized by CMA-ES. We set the
same friction parameters to all objects in the simulator: the
walls and bottom that construct the circular maze, and the
marble. We have modeled the mass and size of the marble,
and geometry of the circular maze based on our measurements
of the real CME used in CMS.
3We attempted to train SAC on the real CME, but were unable to
demonstrate any learning after three days, perhaps due to complications
like the continuous action space or high control frequency. However, [10]
demonstrated sim-to-real with transfer learning could solve a somewhat
different CME, suggesting a possible additional comparison for future work.
