TStarBot-X: An Open-Sourced and Comprehensive Study for
Eﬃcient League Training in StarCraft II Full Game
Lei Hana,∗, Jiechao Xionga,∗, Peng Suna,∗, Xinghai Suna, Meng Fanga, Qingwei Guob, Qiaobo
Chenb, Tengfei Shib, Hongsheng Yub, Xipeng Wub, Zhengyou Zhanga
aTencent Robtics X, Shenzhen, China
bDepartment of AI Platform, Tencent, Shenzhen, China
Abstract
StarCraft, one of the most diﬃcult esport games with long-standing history of professional
tournaments, has attracted generations of players and fans, and also, intense attentions in
artiﬁcial intelligence research. Recently, Google’s DeepMind announced AlphaStar [1], a
grandmaster level AI in StarCraft II that can play with humans using comparable action
space and operations. In this paper, we introduce a new AI agent, named TStarBot-X, that
is trained under orders of less computations and can play competitively with expert human
players 1. TStarBot-X takes advantage of important techniques introduced in AlphaStar,
and also beneﬁts from substantial innovations including new league training methods, novel
multi-agent roles, rule-guided policy search, stabilized policy improvement, lightweight neural
network architecture, and importance sampling in imitation learning, etc. We show that with
orders of less computation scale, a faithful reimplementation of AlphaStar’s methods can
not succeed and the proposed techniques are necessary to ensure TStarBot-X’s competitive
performance. We reveal all technical details that are complementary to those mentioned in
AlphaStar, showing the most sensitive parts in league training, reinforcement learning and
imitation learning that aﬀect the performance of the agents. Most importantly, this is an
open-sourced study that all codes and resources (including the trained model parameters)
are publicly accessible via https://github.com/tencent-ailab/tleague_projpage. We
expect this study could be beneﬁcial for both academic and industrial future research in
solving complex problems like StarCraft, and also, might provide a sparring partner for all
StarCraft II players and other AI agents.
Keywords:
Game, StarCraft, Reinforcement Learning, Multi-Agent, League Training
∗Equal contribution. Correspondence to the ﬁrst three authors.
Email addresses: leihan.cs@gmail.com (Lei Han), jchxiong@gmail.com (Jiechao Xiong),
pengsun000@gmail.com (Peng Sun)
1We focus on playing Zerg, one of the three StarCraft races. We need to clarify that we are not able to
precisely place the agent at an oﬃcial level such as Grandmaster, Master or Diamond, etc., since we can not
access Battle.net League system through public APIs without Blizzard Entertainment’s permission. Instead,
we let the agent play against oﬃcially ranked Grandmaster and Master level human players, and receive
evaluations from humans. Please refer to 5 for the results.
1
arXiv:2011.13729v2  [cs.AI]  30 Apr 2021

1. Introduction
Game, a naturally closed environment with well designed logic, has been considered as
the most straightforward and ideal scenarios for testing artiﬁcial intelligence (AI). Recent
advances in large-scale deep reinforcement learning (RL) have demonstrated that current
learning systems are able to solve complex games even with super-human performance. There
have been a series of breakthroughs, including solving games of Atari [2], GO [3, 4], Quake III
Arena Capture the Flag [5] and DOTA2 [6], etc. Real-time strategy (RTS) games, a sub-genre
of video games that requires consistent timely decisions on a large amount of choices like
resource-gathering, construction and units control, were considered as the most challenging
benchmark for AI research.
Recently, Google’s DeepMind announced AlphaStar [1], a
grandmaster level performance AI that can play in a way comparable to humans in StarCraft
II (SC2), an iconic representative of RTS game developed by Blizzard Entertainment. The
AlphaStar’s system turns to be an enormous infrastructure with its scopes covering advanced
deep neural networks, imitation learning (IL), RL, multi-agent population-based training,
huge-scale distributed actor-learner architecture, environmental engineering, etc. Even a
faithful reimplementation of this system is nontrivial without the same scale of computations
and codes.
With full respect on the work of AlphaStar, we are curious about every detail how well the
AI understands the complex logics in SC2, how each part in the learning system contributes
to generating strong AIs, and how general these techniques can be applied especially when
the computation resources are limited. In this paper, we try to answer these questions by
introducing and analyzing a new AI agent, TStarBot-X, a successor of our previous work
TStarBot1 and TStarBot2 [7]. TStarBot-X diﬀers much from its early versions (TStarBot1
and TStarBot2) which are based either on macro hierarchical actions or hand-craft rules [7].
It uses similar action space as AlphaStar and is comparable to human operations. The
average APM/EPM of TStarBot-X is 232/196 and the peak value is 609/519 (calculated
from the matches in human evaluation), which is less than many expert human players and
AlphaStar’s APM/EPM. TStarBot-X uses only 20 million parameters in its neural network,
including both the policy net (with 17.25 million parameters) and the value net (with shared
parts from policy and 2.75 million additional parameters), while the number of parameters
used by AlphaStar is 139 million in total, with 55 million for policy net and 84 million for
value net, respectively. As we can clearly see that our model is much smaller than that
of AlphaStar, especially for the value net. Nevertheless, the network seems to work well
in performance and gains considerable eﬃciency. As has been demonstrated in AlphaStar,
imitation/supervised learning is very important to provide the agent a good initial policy.
TStarBot-X also starts learning by imitating human replays. We used a dataset containing
309,571 Zerg vs. Zerg replays across SC2 versions 4.8.2, 4.8.4, 4.8.6 and 4.9.0-4.9.3, where at
least one player’s MMR ≥3500. The supervised agent can defeat the built-in Elite-bot (level
7) with a win-rate of 90% with either the zero z-stat or sampling from a subset of 174 z-stats
collected from human replays. The z-stat is a high-level feature including strategic statistics
2

introduced in [1]. It is worth mentioning that in IL, importance sampling over trajectories
is very important to the agent performance. Without importance sampling, i.e., using the
original data from human replays, the win-rate against the Elite-bot only reaches 68%.
After obtaining the supervised agent, we indeed immediately tried to follow AlphaStar’s
conﬁguration to implement multi-agent reinforcement learning by populating the league [1, 5]
under our computational scale whose total consuming and generating speeds are only 1/30
and 1/73 of those in AlphaStar. That is, we construct the league with one main agent (MA),
two main exploiters (ME) and two league exploiters (LE). 2 We refer to this conﬁguration as
‘AlphaStar Surrogate’ that will be referenced as a baseline method. Unfortunately, although
the league training can consistently improve the agent’s performance, the strategic diversity
and strength in the entire league is signiﬁcantly limited. In several repetitions, the main
agent converges to either Zergingling Rush or Roach Push (two early Zerg strategies) in a
few days, and the unit/upgrade types produced in the entire league are also very limited. We
conjecture that insuﬃcient explorations prevent the agents from improving as expected.
In order to enhance the agent diversity and strength in the league, we propose three new
techniques: Diversiﬁed League Training (DLT), Rule-Guided Policy Search (RGPS), and
stabilized policy improvement with Divergence-Augmented Policy Optimization (DAPO) [? ].
We need to ﬁrst clarify that when we refer to diversity of the league, we are talking about the
the diversity of the exploiters and diversity of the MA separately. The former indicates the
diverse strategies generated in the entire league, while the latter indicates the diversity of the
counter-strategies and robustness when the MA plays against any exploiter using arbitrary
strategies. The strength of the agents indicates that for a speciﬁc strategy how strong and
well the agent can perform.
DLT thus aims to eﬃciently generate diverse and strong exploiters under our case. To
do so, we ﬁrst ﬁne-tune the supervised agent on K separate sub-datasets, in each of which
some speciﬁc units or strategies take place in human replays, to obtain K speciﬁc and diverse
supervised agents. The K sub-datasets can be simply divided by unit types or summarized
strategies by human experts. We then introduce several new agent roles in the league,
including speciﬁc exploiter (SE), evolutionary exploiter (EE) and adaptive evolutionary
exploiter (AEE). SE works in the same way as ME except that it starts with one of the
above K ﬁne-tuned supervised models. EE and AEE focus on continuing training historical
exploiter agents that are still exploitable. EE tends to evolve as strong as possible probably
with some distinct strategies, while AEE tends to balance the diversity and strength of the
agents. The league training is then launched by consisting of a mixture of MA, ME, LE,
SE, EE and AEE. It turns out that DLT can eﬃciently generate various units and strategies
among the agents in the league (Figure 7(a)).
DLT pushes much burden on MA’s improvement. That is, MA needs to ﬁnd all counter-
2In AlphaStar’s league, there are three main agents each of which is for one StarCraft race. Each main
agent is equipped with one main exploiter and two league exploiters. To align with such a setting and make
full use of our computational resources, we use one main agent, two main exploiters and two league exploiters
for AlphaStar Surrogate. Detailed conﬁgurations can be found in Section 5.
3

strategies against diverse exploiters and to be as robust as possible. To speedup this progress,
RGPS is introduced to help MA to skip tedious explorations on inherent game logics and let
MA focus on explorations at a strategic level. We use the following example to illustrate the
aforementioned inherent game logics. For SC2 human players, they understand ‘Hydralisk’
is strong against ‘Mutalisk’ and its training relies on ‘Hydraliskden’ which further relies
on ‘Lair’, by just reading the oﬃcial player’s instructions and quickly verifying it in a few
practical matches.
3 However, it is extremely diﬃcult for AI agents to understand these
logics from a semantic level, and agents need to explore with extremely large amount of data
to ﬁt such game logics into a parameterized policy. Speciﬁcally, RGPS uses a distillation
term to induce the policy to follow some inherent game logics conditioning on a few critical
states, on which the teacher policy outputs an one-hot or multi-hot distribution that is a
distributional encoding of ‘if-else’ logics. We show that with RGPS, MA can easily learn
these game logics and focus on explorations on long-term strategies (Figure 7(b)).
With suﬃcient league diversity, we also consider to speedup the policy improvement using
DAPO. DAPO is originally derived for stabilized policy optimization from the scope of mirror
descent algorithms [? ]. In league training, we apply DAPO at the agent level that the agent
at learning period t + 1 has to stay close to its historical model at learning period t via a KL
term. In our case, each agent stores a copy of itself into the league every ∼12 hours which
is referred to as a learning period. In the formal experiment that lasts for 57 days, we use
DLT+RGPS in the ﬁrst 42 days and activate DAPO in the last 15 days where we observe
signiﬁcant policy improvement speedup after activating DAPO (Figure 5(b)).
After 57 days of training, the ﬁnal TStarBot-X agents are evaluated by four invited
expert human players with tens of games (Table 5). TStarBot-X wins two Master players
with 11:0 and 13:0, and wins two Grandmaster players with 7:0 and 4:1, respectively. Other
comprehensive league evaluations are provided in the experimental section. We end up the
introduction with an overall comparison between AlphaStar’s learning systems and ours in
Table 1.
2. Related Work
Solving challenging games has been considered as a straightforward way to validate the
advance of artiﬁcial intelligence. Our work thus belongs to this series that using general
deep reinforcement learning to play games. As mentioned previously, the games of GO [3, 4],
VizDoom [8], Quake III Arena Capture the Flag [5], and Dota 2 [6] has already been mastered
using deep RL, evaluated by expert human players. These games are all competitive games
that at least two opposite camps of players should join the game to compete. This naturally
motivates the development of multi-agent learning and game-theoretic algorithms. Population-
based training, with ﬁctitious self-play as a speciﬁc case, thus becomes one of the most eﬀective
way to generate strong AIs. Known as its game complexities on both strategic and operational
domains, StarCraft has been pushed on the top of AI challenges. Prior to AlphaStar, there
3Please refer to 3.1 for explanations of these SC2 terms.
4

Table 1: A comparison between AlphaStar and TStarBot-X’s learning systems. All numbers for AlphaStar
are calculated from the reported numbers in [1] and converted to the same criterion for comparison. ‘fps’
indicates ‘frame/step per second’.
AlphaStar
TStarBot-X
Race
All three SC2 races
Zerg
Map
Cyber Forest, Kairos Junction,
Kairos Junction
King’s Cove, and New Repugnancy
Action Space
Similar to human operations
Similar to human operations
Use Camera View
False for demonstration; True for ﬁnal version
False
Average APM/EPM
259/211 for Zerg
232/196
Max APM/EPM
1192/823 for Zerg
609/519
Model Size
139 million parameters
20 million parameters
Human Replay Usage
971,000
309,571
Roles in League
MA, ME, LE
MA, ME, LE, SE, EE, AEE
Consuming Speed
390 fps/TPU core
210 fps/GPU
Generating Speed
195 fps received by each TPU core
43 fps received by each GPU
TPU/GPU Usage
3,072 third-generation TPU cores in total with
half for training and another half for inference
144 Nvidia Tesla V100 GPUs (without RDMA)
(each of the 12 agents uses 128 TPU cores for
with 96 for training and 48 for inference
training and 128 TPU cores for inference)
CPU Usage
50,400 preemptible CPU cores
13,440 standard CPU cores
Concurrent Matches
192,000
6,720
Total Training Time
44 days
57 days
have been a number of attempts focusing on decomposing SC2 into various mini-games, such
as scenarios of micro-management [9, 10, 11, 12], build order optimization [13], resources
gathering [10], etc. Our previous work [7] focused on SC2 full game and started to use RL
to train agents based on some high-level actions. Then, AlphaStar [1] is released, using
human-comparable operations and general RL with a population of training agents to reach
grandmaster level performance. After that, the domain is still active, with eﬀorts paid on
many aspects of the game, such as build order optimization and sub-goal selection [14, 13, 15].
Also, a Terran AI shows in an exhibition to win some matches against professional human
players [? ], using similar methods as AlphaStar except that it does some optimization over
AlphaStar’s neural network architecture and uses three main agents in the league, while a
thorough assessment of these diﬀerences are missing, and the implementation details and
many experimental conﬁgurations remain unclear.
Our work is most related to AlphaStar. We attempt to understand every detail using
deep RL and league training to play SC2, with orders of less computations compared to
AlphaStar. We demonstrate the advantages of the proposed techniques of DLT, RGPS
and DAPO with comprehensive studies and comparisons with AlphaStar Surrogate. We
aim to provide an open-sourced system that might directly contributes to both academic
and industrial communities. Generally, using nowadays’ learning methods, the resources
required by mastering a game are often proportional to the complexity of that game. We
could reference some accurate numbers to name a few. A distributed version of AlphaGo
used 176 GPUs and 1,202 CPU cores for inference with MCTS [3], OpenAI Five for solving
DOTA2 used 1,536 GPUs and 172,800 CPU cores for training [6], and AlphaStar used 3,072
third-generation TPU cores and 50,400 preemptible CPU cores for training [1]. In our work,
5

we used 144 GPUs and 13,440 CPU cores on the Tencent Cloud.
3. Preliminaries
3.1. The Game of StarCraft II
We understand that not all readers are familiar with SC2, so we start with a brief
introduction of its basic game concepts. SC2 players can feel free to skip this section. In SC2,
each player needs to make a series of timely decisions to play against the opponent, including
resource gathering and allocation, building construction, training units, deploying the army,
researching technologies, and controlling units, etc. The total number of units needed to be
controlled at a single step might be up to hundreds, and the maximum of this number is set
to 600 in our implementation. The units of the opponent are hidden to the player, unless
they appear in the view of the units controlled by the player. In SC2, there are three races:
Zerg, Terran and Protoss, that humans can choose any one of them to play the game. For
Zerg, we illustrate a few units frequently appeared in human replays. An important building
is the Hatchery, which is the base for resource gathering and it can morph to Lair which can
further morph to Hive. With Hatchery, units related to Queen, Zergling, Baneling, Roach
and Ravager can be produced. With Lair, units related to Hydralisk, Lurker, Infestor, Swarm
Host, Mutalisk, Corruptor and Overseer can be produced. With Hive, Viper, Brood Lord and
Ultralisk can be produced. Among those, Mutalisk, Corruptor, Overseer, Viper and Brood
Lord are air units, and all other units are ground units. Some of these names might be used
in the rest of this paper. Detailed descriptions of all the Zerg units can be found in the SC2’s
oﬃcial website or [17].
3.2. Reinforcement Learning
The problem considered by RL can be formulated by a tuple < A, S, O, P, r, γ, π >. At
each time step t, st ∈S is the global state in the state space S; for partially observed
environment, like SC2, we can not access st and instead we observe ot ∈O; A is the
action space and at ∈A is the action executed by the agent at time step t; the probability
P(st+1|st, at) is the state transition function; r(st, at) is the reward function; γ ∈[0, 1] is a
discount factor. Let π(at|ot) denote a stochastic policy conditioning on partial observation ot,
and let η(π) = Es0,a0,··· [R0] with Rt = P∞
l=0 γlrt+l denoting the expected discounted reward,
where at ∼π(at|ot) and st+1 ∼P(st+1|st, at). At time step t, the value function is deﬁned as
Vπ(st) = Eat,st+1,··· [Rt]. For competitive multi-agent RL, centralized value function is often
utilized during the training phase to provide more accurate policy evaluation. That is, for
learning the value function, the global state is assumed known. Solving the RL problem
requires to ﬁnd the optimal policy π∗that achieves the maximum expected reward η(π∗).
Actor-critic (AC) algorithm is one of the most commonly adopted RL methods. It uses
a parameterized policy πθ and update its parameters by directly maximizing the expected
reward J(θ) = Es,a [R] using the policy gradient
∇θJ(θ) = Es,a [∇θ log πθ(a|s)Aπ(s, a)] ,
6

where A(s, a) is the critic. There exists several ways to estimate A(s, a), resulting in a variant
of AC algorithms, including some state-of-the-art representatives like TRPO [18], PPO [19],
V-trace [20] and UPGO [1]. In this paper, we will use a combination of the PPO, V-trace
and UPGO algorithms.
3.3. Self-Play, Population-based Training and Populating the League
Self-play is a training scheme and it arises in the context of multi-agent learning, where a
learning agent is trained to play against itself and/or its historical checkpoints during training.
This method is game-theoretically justiﬁed, as it turns out to be a Monte Carlo implementation
(i.e., sampling the opponents) of the so-called ﬁctitious self-play to approximate the Nash
Equilibrium [21, 22, 23]. Once an opponent is sampled, it can be considered as part of the
environment’s dynamics from the perspective of the learning agent, so that single agent RL
algorithms mentioned in Section 3.2 can be utilized, serving as a proxy algorithm to learn
the best response to its opponent [21]. For example, AlphaGo [3] is trained by self-play with
MCTS tree search. Based on the concept of self-play, population-based training (PBT) has
been proposed. In PBT, agents are trained independently with diﬀerent objectives that are
learned or shaped dynamically. PBT is shown to be successful in the ﬁrst-person video game,
Quake III Arena Capture the Flag [5]. Similar to PBT, AlphaStar introduced populating the
league [1], an approach to maintain a league of growing number of diverse training agents
that can play against each other.
3.4. Distributed Learner-Actor Architecture
There have been continuous attempts to scale up RL by distributed systems. For example,
A3C [24] proposes a framework with distributed independent actors. Each actor has its own
copy of the policy and the gradients are asynchronously aggregated on a single parameter
server. GA3C [25] extends A3C by using a GPU for both inference and policy learning in an
asynchronous mode. IMPALA [20] proposes a learner-actor architecture, in which distributed
actors are responsible for data generation and the learner receives the data for gradient
computation. SEED RL [26] improves upon the IMPALA architecture and achieves higher
throughput in both single-machine and multi-node scenarios by using TPUs for inference
on the learner. In this paper, we will use a distributed learner-actor architecture named
TLeague [33] that is similar to SEED RL, while our architecture is speciﬁcally designed to
solve multi-agent learning problems.
4. Technical Details and Methods
4.1. Environmental Engineering
To push the frontier of AI research, Google’s DeepMind and Blizzard Entertainment
jointly created SC2LE [10], providing APIs to allow outer control of the game. DeepMind
further wraps the core library in Python as PySC2. Our work is based on an early version of
PySC2, with extensions to expose more interfaces to fetch information like unit attributes,
game status, technology tree, and version control, etc. The exposed information is necessary
to let the AI agent better understand the game status, and the information can also be
7

acquired by human players in the game. These interfaces are implemented in a convenient
way through the general environmental framework Arena [27].
4.2. Observation, Action and Reward
Similar to AlphaStar, the spaces within which the agent can observe and act are comparable
to humans. That is, at each step, the observation of the agent consists of the attributes
of the visible units, a spatial 2D feature, a vector of global statistics, the last action the
agent executed, and some masks encoding the game logic (e.g., after choosing a Zergling,
‘Build’ abilities are not available), without any information hidden in fog. Similar to humans,
the agent acts by choosing an ability, selecting executors and targets, and suﬀering from
delays. Nevertheless, we have to admit that we indeed remove the camera constraint like the
demonstration version of AlphaStar to facilitate the learning. The APM/EPM reported in
Table 1 shows that the agent does not beneﬁt much from its action space, and TStarBot-X
tends to operate 10%/7% slower than AlphaStar in average APM/EPM and 49%/37% slower
in terms of max APM/EPM. Figures 2 and 3 show the detailed observation and action spaces.
Table 2: Observation space in TStarBot-X. In the following table, UC is short for ‘Unit Count’; stat. indicates
statistics; B & R prog. is short for ‘Building and Researching progress’. BO is abbreviation for ‘Build Order’;
Cmd indicates ‘Command’; NOOP means ‘No-Operation’.
Obs: frames
Unit attributes
Unit coordinate
Unit buﬀ
Unit order
Unit type
Images
Player stat.
Space
(600, 369)
(600, 2)
(600,)
(600,)
(600,)
(128, 128, 15)
(10,)
Obs: frames
Upgrade
Game length
Self UC
Enemy UC
Anti-air UC
B & R prog.
Space
(28,)
(64,)
(57,)
(57,)
(4,)
(92,)
Obs: z-stat
BO
BO coordinate
Unit stat.
Space
(20, 62)
(20, 18)
(80,)
Obs: last action
Ability
NOOP
Queued
Selection
Cmd unit
Cmd position
Space
(117,)
(128,)
(2,)
(64, 601)
(600,)
(128, 128)
Obs: mask
Ability
Selection
Cmd unit
Cmd position
Space
(117,)
(117, 600)
(117, 600)
(117, 128, 128)
Table 3: Action space in TStarBot-X. NOOP indicates ‘No-Operation’ and it is the same as the ‘Delay’ head
used in AlphaStar. For the selection head, we need one additional label to indicate the selection termination,
which is similar to the end of sequence (EOS) in natural language processing.
Action heads
Ability
NOOP
Queued
Selection
Cmd unit
Cmd position
Space
(117,)
(128,)
(2,)
(64, 601)
(600,)
(128, 128)
In Table 2, z-stat is a high-level feature introduced and highlighted in AlphaStar. By
sampling a human replay, a z-stat is ﬁxed that it includes a build order sequence of length
20, the coordinate of each unit in that order and a vector indicating the unit appearance in
the sampled replay. It has been emphasized in [1] that the strategic diversity of the policy
can be controlled by varying the z-stat. In Table 3, the no-operation (NOOP) head allows a
maximum delay of 128 game frames, around 5.7 seconds in real-time game. The selection
head can select a maximum number of 64 units at a step. The maximum number of observed
units is set to 600, a number determined by parsing all human replays that only less than
8

concatenate 
along channels 
residual block
sum
pointer network
residual 
block
sequential prediction
GLU with output 
size 117
residual 
block
residual block
tansformer
block
unit attributes
(?, 600, 369)
unit buff ID
(?, 600)
unit order ID
(?, 600)
unit type ID
(?, 600)
fc: 256
embedded buff
(?, 600, 256)
embedded order
(?, 600, 256)
embedded type
(?, 600, 256)
fc: 256
fc: 256
unit mask: (?, 600)
2-headed self-attention with keys, quieries and values of size 128 for each head
ff: 256
3 ×
fc: 32
image-like tensor
(?, 128, 128, 15)
c1x1@32
c3x3@32
c3x3@128
concatenate along the last dimension
conv and downsample
c1x1@32
c4x4@32, with stride of 2
c3x3@64, with stride of 2
c3x3@128, with stride of 2
concatenate 
along channels 
skip
connection
× 3
flatten
fc: 256
List of units (with a maximum number of 600 units)
Images 
Vectors 
ability mask: (?, 117)
fc: 64
ability
(?,)
fc: 256
noop
(?,)
queued
(?,)
(?,)
embedded ability
(?, 256)
embedded noop
(?, 128)
c3x3@4 and p2x2 
repeated for 4 times
flatten
cmd pos
build order
(?, 20, 62)
coordinates
(?, 20, 18)
unit stat.
(?, 80)
fc: 32
fc: 32
fc: 256
fc: 32
A single LSTM layer with size 32
fc: 256
fc: 32
mean pooling over units
integrate all by concatenation
concatenate
concatenate
concatenate
Last action 
z-stat
A single LSTM layer with size 384
fc: 256
fc: 256
skip connection
× 3
scalar context 
used in GLU
concatenate
ability head
(?, 117)
noop head
(?, 128)
residual 
block
fc: 256
fc: 256
skip connection
queued head
(?, 2)
attention
LSTM layer 
with size 32
selection head
(?, 64, 601)
fc: 256
fc: 256
skip connection
cmd unit head
(?, 600)
cmd pos head
(?, 128, 128)
embedded ability
(?, 256)
GLU with output 
size 1024
GLU with output 
size 1024
sum
fc: 256
fc: 256
fc: 128
embedded noop
(?, 256)
fc: 1024
sum
embedded queued
(?, 1024)
fc: 2
sum
embedded selection
(?, 1024)
8-headed
attention
query
fc: 32
sum
one selection
keys
keys
query
(?, 16, 16, 4)
reshape
c3x3@128
c3x3@128
c3x3@128
c3x3@128
c1x1@1
selection mask: (?, 600)
ability mask: (?, 117)
cmd unit mask: (?, 600)
position mask: (?, 600)
Figure 1: The detailed policy architecture. ‘?’ indicates the batch dimension. All green rectangles are inputs.
Dark red rectangles are output multi-head actions. Black rectangles denote masks relying on the game logic.
2% frames of human replays contain more than 600 units. A detailed list of used features
and abilities can be found via the open-sourced repository. For reward function, we follow
AlphaStar’s conﬁguration by using the win-loss outcome, the Edit distance between the
build order in z-stat and the immediate build order, and the Manhattan distances between
the build units, eﬀects, upgrades in z-stat and the according immediate values. Except the
win-loss reward, each of the other rewards is activated with a probability of 0.25 for the main
agent. Exploiters initialized from the standard supervised agent only use the win-loss reward.
Exploiters initialized from diversely ﬁne-tuned supervised agents use all the above rewards
with 25% activation probability on the build order reward and 100% activation for others.
The discount factor γ is set to 1.0, i.e., without discounts.
4.3. Neural Network Architechture
Figures 1 and 2 show the detailed policy and value net architectures used by TStarBot-X,
respectively. Most of the functional modules, such as a central LSTM for memorization, a
transformer for encoding list of unit features, sequential prediction for the selection head,
and pointer network for choosing a target unit, etc., follow what are used in AlphaStar. The
main diﬀerences are:
9

Embeddings from policy net
Identical structure with shared parameters
target z-stat
immediate z-stat
opponent immediate z-stat
sequential output
dot-product attention
LSTM embedding
integrated embedding
opponent vector features
fc: 512
fc: 512
win-loss value
build order value
build unit  value
effect value
upgrade value
concatenate
target build unit stat.
(?, 34)
immediate  build unit stat.
(?, 34)
target effect stat.
(?, 18)
immediate  effect stat.
(?, 18)
target upgrade stat.
(?, 28)
immediate upgrade stat.
(?, 28)
fc: 32
fc: 32
fc: 32
fc: 32
fc: 32
fc: 32
embedded upgrade
embedded effect
embedded build unit
embedded upgrade
embedded effect
embedded build unit
residual 
block
fc: 64
fc: 64
skip connection
× 8
fc: 1
fc: 1
fc: 1
fc: 1
fc: 1
residual 
block
fc: 64
fc: 64
skip connection
× 8
residual 
block
fc: 64
fc: 64
skip connection
× 8
residual 
block
fc: 64
fc: 64
skip connection
× 8
residual 
block
fc: 64
fc: 64
skip connection
× 8
concatenate
concatenate
concatenate
concatenate
concatenate
concatenate
concatenate
concatenate
Figure 2: The detailed value architecture. ‘?’ indicates the batch dimension. All green rectangles are inputs.
Dark red rectangles are output multi-head values. The light red rectangles, i.e., LSTM embedding and
integrated embedding are the embeddings just after and before the central LSTM layer in the policy net.
• we signiﬁcantly reduce the size of the network by removing some functional modules
and reducing the number of dense layers and layer size. For example, we remove the
FiLM [1] connections; we only use GLU for the ability head; we use a single layer for
the central LSTM; for residual blocks, which are adopted multiple times, we never stack
the blocks more than 3 times in the policy net. By doing so, both the training and
inference speed becomes endurable under our computation scale;
• we replace the transformer connections for build order embedding with a single LSTM
layer, since compared to the units embedding, build order is sequentially mattered. We
indeed experiment with ablations and the results show that a single LSTM layer here
is slightly superior than using transformers during imitation learning;
• for value net, diﬀering from AlphaStar which creates a symmetric representation using
the entire network for both self and opponent’s observations, we only fetch some general
statistics from the enemy side into a single short vector. As shown in Figure 2, it
includes the player statistics, upgraded technologies, unit counts, etc. This, together
with the opponent’s immediate z-stat embedding, are the only inputs from the opponent
side. The value still acts in a centralized way while it evaluates by only conditioning
10

on the enemy’s strategic statistics and self information. By doing so, the value net is
around 30 times smaller than that used in AlphaStar.
It is also worth mentioning a number of attempts before choosing a condensed version of
AlphaStar’s network. Prior to the release of AlphaStar’s technical details, we indeed tried
multiple versions of neural network compositions:
• for the selection head, we ﬁrst tried multi-binary output that each unit is independently
determined to be selected or not at the last layer, while they share some common units
representation at lower layers. Multi-binary head generally works well and is much
more eﬃcient compared to sequential predictions. However, it unavoidably suﬀers from
the unit independency that a few units intended to be selected are often missed from
the prediction with probability;
• we parallelly investigated the ‘scatter connection’ which was then demonstrated to be
eﬀective in [1]. This operation scatters the unit embeddings to the corresponding spatial
positions in the 2D feature representation by concatenation along the channels and
appending zeros for other locations without any units ﬁlled. It is similar to the feature
representation used in GridNet [11]. Moreover, we tried ‘gather connection’, an aﬃne
and inverse operator of scatter connection that fetches the output of the convolution
layers according to the unit positions and append the fetched dense representations to
the unit embeddings. By using scatter connection and gather connection together, we
initially abandoned transformers and the units’ interaction was completely captured
by convolution layers. This is still for eﬃciency consideration to remove the O(n2)
complexity in transformers (with n being the number of units). It turns out that the
trained agent prefers to control a group of units that are spatially close to each other
and barely controls one or a few units for speciﬁc micro-management;
• absorbing the selection operation into abilities is a fairer way to make an AI agent
act like human. In Figure 1 and AlphaStar, selection is considered as an independent
action head as a part of the auto-regressive structure. This naturally gives an AI agent
superhuman capability that it can always ﬁnish selection and an eﬀective command, e.g.,
attack a target, at a single step. On the contrary, humans have to perform a selection
operation at an earlier step and then launch the command after that. We empirically
ﬁnd that by isolating selection operation from other abilities into the auto-regressive
structure, the AI agent can always reach the ratio of EPM/APM around 0.8 ∼0.85. An
earlier version of TStarBot-X indeed absorbs the selection head into the ability head,
and it has to use a single step to act selection ﬁrst and then executes a command at a
later step, identical to human. The supervised agent can then only reach an average
ratio of EPM/APM around 0.5.
4.4. Imitation Learning with Importance Sampling
We use a dataset containing 309,571 Zerg vs. Zerg replays. Table 4 shows the replay
distribution with respect to game versions. Version 4.8.3 seems to be damaged and it raises
11

Table 4: Human replays used by TStarBot-X.
Game version
4.8.2
4.8.4
4.8.6
4.9.0
4.9.1
4.9.2
4.9.3
total
Number of replays
43,144
31,576
51,907
33,612
29,467
44,152
75,713
309,571
errors when loading replays in this version. The replays log the human players’ raw actions
and generally each one can be mapped into a valid action under the space introduced in
4.2. However, considerable amount of data preprocessing eﬀorts are required. For example,
‘Smart’ over a ‘Hatchery’ is equivalent to the action ‘Rally’, while ‘Smart’ attackable units on
an enemy unit indicates ‘Attack’ that unit. That is, raw actions from replays labeled with
the same abilities work diﬀerently when the executors are from diﬀerent types. To remove
ambiguity, we compact the raw actions and a list of the preprocessed abilities for Zerg can be
found in the open-sourced repository via the provided link.
In [1], there are very few discussions on imitation/supervised learning, while we empirically
ﬁnd that a straightforward run over the preprocessed data is not a good choice. Importance
sampling over abilities is extremely important. Using a simple importance sampling conﬁgu-
ration will increase the win-rate of the agent against the Elite-bot from 68% to 85% (90%
win-rate mentioned in introduction is achieved by further ﬁne-tuning the model on data with
higher MMR). That is, we downsample ‘NOOP’ by a rate of 0.2 and downsample ‘Smart’ by a
rate of 0.25, while all other abilities that fail to appear in each replay at least once in average
will be upsampled by the ratio the number of total replays over the ability’s total count,
capped by 10.0. The actions that do not belong to the above mentioned cases remain their
original distribution. Since we use LSTM, importance sampling should be implemented over
trajectories. Speciﬁcally, we sample trajectories by summing up all the point-wise sampling
weights within a trajectory, normalized by the total weights in the concurrent replay memory.
After a trajectory is sampled, the point-wise weights are reassigned to the supervised loss for
back-propagation. This guarantees the estimation unbiased.
Our imitation learning procedure diﬀers from traditional supervised learning fashions
where the data is preprocessed once and then stored untouched. Instead, we use online and
distributed data generators, which are named Replay Actors, to send human trajectories
to the imitation learner as the training proceeds. Although such an infrastructure uses
more CPUs to generate data, it keeps compatible with the RL infrastructure and facilitate
algorithms using mixture of human data and self-generated data. Another beneﬁt is that
feature engineering is much more convenient. The training is implemented on 144 GPUs and
5,600 CPU cores. We choose a model after 43 hours of imitation learning, which shows the
best testing performance against the Elite-bot, and then we ﬁne-tune this model on 1500
human replays with at least one human player’s MMR above 6200. The obtained model,
with a win-rate of 90% against the Elite-bot, servers as a standard baseline supervised agent,
which will be used as one of the initial models for exploiters in league training.
From the baseline supervised agent, we continue ﬁne-tuning this model in K = 6 separate
subsets of human replays with at least one human player’s MMR above 3500 (the subset of
replays may overlap). Each subset of the replays covers the usage of a speciﬁc unit or strategy,
including the Hydralisk, Lurker, Mutalisk, Nydus Network, Researching TunnelingClaws and
12

Worker Rush, which are frequently observed in human replays. The K ﬁne-tuned supervised
models will be used by some speciﬁc exploiters as initial models, as will be introduced in 4.5.
4.5. Diversiﬁed League Training
Choosing appropriate RL algorithms, e.g., V-trace, PPO or UPGO, could stabilise RL
training. We have empirically veriﬁed that using prioritized ﬁctitious self-play (PFSP) [1],
optimizing Equation 1 or replacing V-trace with PPO in Equation 1 can both let the training
agent consistently surpass its historical models. However, due to the complexities in SC2,
especially for its large space of cyclic and non-transitive strategies, using PFSP is not suﬃcient
to let the agent discover robust or novel policies. Diversity in the policy population thus
plays an important role to solve this challenge.
To enrich the diversity in the policy population, AlphaStar emphasizes the usage of the
z-stat feature and populating the league [1]. The former one directly ﬁts strong strategic
human knowledge into the policy, enabling the control of the agents’ strategies by just choosing
the z-stat, while the latter one focuses on game-theoretic perspective to employ exploiters to
discover new strategies. As we have explained, the former one aims to enhance the diversity in
MA (in AlphaStar, only MAs use z-stat), and the latter one enriches the exploiters’ diversity
in the league. To be general, we refer to populating the league with diverse roles as League
Training. The word ‘League’ is essentially from Blizzard Entertainment’s Battle.net League.
AlphaStar’s league contains three agent roles: Main Agent (MA), Main Exploiter (ME) and
League Exploiter (LE). MA is unique in the league (for a distinct race) and it keeps training
against all other agents and itself throughout the entire life of learning. It is positioned as
a ROBUST agent that can respond to all other strategies. ME is set to exploit MA only
and LE aims to ﬁnd weakness of the entire league. Both ME and LE reset to the supervised
model periodically when their maximum number of training steps is reached or they achieve
a high win-rate (above 70%) against their opponents. It can be deduced from [1] (or Table 1)
that the ME of AlphaStar resets every 24 hours approximately (4 × 109 steps) and the LE
resets about every 2 days in average (2×109 steps with a reset probability of 25%), regardless
of their win-rates. It is also worth noting that from Figure 4A in [1], the performance of LE
keeps improving even if it resets every 2 days in average. This implies that restarting from a
baseline supervised model, AlphaStar’s exploiters can quickly reach a strong performance
that is competitive to its MA (which never reset) even within a single training period. In
addition, a mixture training across all SC2 races further diversiﬁes the league.
In our experiments, reimplementing the above conﬁgured league training raises issues:
1) keeping the same amount of periodic training steps for the exploiters costs us more than
10 days for a single period. This is unendurable and makes the league too sparse; 2) using
less training steps leads to weak ME and LE agents that can hardly catch up with the
continuously trained MA, and the problem becomes worse as the training proceeds; 3) Zerg
vs. Zerg reduces the chance for discovering many novel strategies, and strategic explorations
become more diﬃcult.
To address the aforementioned issues, we introduce several new agent roles:
• Speciﬁc Exploiter (SE): it works similarly as ME except that it starts from one of the
speciﬁc ﬁne-tuned supervised model introduced at the end of 4.4. Each SE focuses
13

on the exploration of a speciﬁc strategy or unit type. Although SE is limited by its
distinct strategy or unit type, it still resets like ME to have chance to discover novel
timing and micro-management policies. SE only uses the win-loss reward and samples
z-stats from the according subset of human replays. It utilizes policy distillation to
stay close to its speciﬁc initial policy with a larger coeﬃcient compared to others.
• Evolutionary Exploiter (EE): it plays against MA and periodically resets to (inherits) a
historical EE with the best win-rate against MA. Once a maximum number of steps
reached or it beats MA above 70% win-rate, a copy of the model is frozen into the
league and it resets (inherits). EE focuses on continually exploiting MA probably with
some distinct strategies. As can be imagined, EE is easy to over-exploit MA, and hence
its learning period length should be carefully set; otherwise, if the learning period is too
short, multiple strong EEs with similar strategy will be added into the league frequently,
and this will lead to a sharp change in MA’s value, as we have observed in our trials.
EE’s evolutionary path is less likely to be wide but tends to be deep.
• Adaptive Evolutionary Exploiter (AEE): it plays against MA and periodically resets
to (inherits) a historical leaf AEE node, whose win-rate against MA lies in 20%-50%,
implying this model is slightly weaker than MA but still exploitable. A leaf AEE node
indicates the newest model in a branch which has never been inherited yet. Each branch
might keep inheriting and improving some distinct strategy as it grows. If there is no
historical model whose win-rate lies in 20%-50%, it resets to its initial supervised model.
If there exists more than one eligible model, it resets to the one whose win-rate against
MA is closest to 50%. AEE continually adds comparable opponents for MA to the
league, making the training of MA stable, and it balances exploration and exploitation.
AEE’s evolutionary path is less likely to be deep but tends to be wide.
Figure 3 shows two examples of how EE and AEE work. We give a brief explanation
for Figure 3(b), and then Figure 3(a) can be understood easily. In Figure 3(b), the training
period proceeds horizontally and a new model ID is generated for this AEE in a new learning
period. For a distinct model ID, once it has been ﬁxed and added into the league, its win-rate
against MA will generally decrease horizontally, since MA keeps training with probability
to sample it as opponent. At the beginning of period 2, model 0001 is a leaf node and its
win-rate against MA lies in 20%-50%, so model 0002 inherits model 0001; at the beginning of
period 3, model 0002’s win-rate exceeds 50% and there does not exist any other leaf node, so
model 0003 resets to the initial model; at the beginning of period 4, there exist two leaf nodes,
i.e., model 0002 with 48% win-rate and model 0003 with 40% win-rate, and then model 0004
inherits model 0002 whose win-rate is closest to 50%, to name a few. Both EE and AEE
can be combined with SE, ME, LE by varying the initial supervised model or the opponent
matching mechanism.
The proposed exploiters either reduce the exploration space, extend the training life or
seek a balance for stabilising MA’s training, and hence they are general methods to deal
with the aforementioned league training problems. After some practical trails, in our formal
experiment, we use a combination among SE, ME, LE and AEE in the league. We refer to
14

0005: 
88%
0003: 
75%
0002: 
80%
0001: 
50%
Period
1
2
3
4
5
initial
model
0001: 
40%
0001: 
35%
0001: 
20%
0001: 
15%
0002: 
78%
0002: 
70%
0002: 
65%
0004: 
85%
0003: 
65%
0003: 
40%
0004: 
80%
(a) Evolutionary Exploiter
0005: 
65%
0003: 
40%
0002: 
55%
0001: 
45%
Period
1
2
3
4
5
initial
model
0001: 
40%
0001: 
35%
0001: 
18%
0001: 
15%
0002: 
48%
0002: 
45%
0002: 
40%
0004: 
60%
0003: 
32%
0003: 
30%
0004: 
55%
(b) Adaptive Evolutionary Exploiter
Figure 3: Examples of how EE and AEE work as the training periods proceed. Green cycles indicate leaf
nodes. The texts in each node consist of a model ID before the colon followed by the win-rate against the
current MA at the end of that training period. Grey texts indicate the corresponding node has been frozen
as a historical model in the league.
such league training with a mixture of these exploiters as Diversiﬁed League Training (DLT).
We will show that DLT enriches the league diversity and beneﬁts MA’s training, compared to
AlphaStar Surrogate. The MA will use 25% Self-Play, 60% PFSP and 15% of PFSP matches
against forgotten main players, similar to AlphaStar. In our experiments, MA is assigned
with 32 GPUs and each exploiter is assigned with 8 GPUs for training. MA pushes a copy
of its model into the league every 3 × 108 steps (around 12 hours in our case). The period
length of all the exploiters is set with a minimum number of 7.65 × 107 steps (also around
12 hours), and after that the exploiters periodically check whether a maximum number of
1.53 × 108 steps is reached or it satisﬁes its condition to reset, inherit or continue training.
4.6. Rule-Guided Policy Search
Following AlphaStar, our RL loss consists of a V-trace [20] loss, an UPGO [1] loss, an
entropy regularizer, and a policy distillation [28] term targeting to the supervised model.
That is, the considered RL loss is
LRL = LV -trace + LUPGO + Lentropy + Ldistill.
(1)
We have also tried a distributed version of PPO [19], and the results suggest that distributed
PPO + UPGO does not show much diﬀerence compared with V-trace + UPGO within 5
days of training.
In addition, we introduce a new Rule-Guided Policy Search (RGPS) loss to promote MA’s
exploration on some critical states. RGPS is a principled way to fuse expert knowledge into
a policy. Speciﬁcally, the RGPS loss induces the policy as follows:
LRGPS =
(
KL

πexpert(·|s)||πθ(·|s)

,
s ∈Scritical,
0,
s /∈Scritical,
(2)
15

where πθ is the training policy parameterized by θ, πexpert is an expert teacher policy and
Scritical ⊂S is a small subset of state space which are considered to be critical by human
experts. The RGPS loss is activated only when s ∈Scritical. RGPS promotes explorations
on these states by following the teacher expert policy πexpert and then generalizes to similar
states. Indeed, in SC2 it is extremely diﬃcult for the traditional RL algorithms to explore
such critical decisions with limited trial-and-errors. Still think about the example in the
introduction, “humans understand that ‘Hydralisk’ is strong against ‘Mutalisk’...”. Fitting
such hard game logics into a policy requires extremely large amount of game episodes, because
within one match these key state-action pairs, say, morphing ‘Lair’ after observing enemy’s
intention to use ‘Mutalisk’, would probably only be performed once among thousands of steps.
We observe in the experiments that without using RGPS, the agents have to spend a large
amount of training time to explore some quite simple scenarios, such as training ‘Hydralisk’
ﬁrst requires ‘Morph Lair’.
For a given s ∈Scritical and discrete action space, πexpert(·|s) in Equation 2 can be
designated by human expert. For example, it can be either a one-hot vector as in conventional
supervised learning or a soft label via the label-smoothing technique [29]. We can further
use hand-craft rules (by human experts) to decide the critical states. Conceptually, RGPS is
similar to the Guided Policy Search (GPS) [30] in regards of imitating an expert policy. The
diﬀerence is that RGPS is an uniﬁed approach for RL by involving an extra regularization
term, while GPS is a two-stage process by ﬁrst generating the expert policy and then imitating
it. GPS obtains the expert policy via Diﬀerential Dynamic Programming (DDP), while RGPS
utilizes hand-craft rules. In most applications, it is impractical to express an expert policy
by solving DDP and using closed-form equations, while it is often possible to transfer expert
knowledges into hand-craft rules conveniently using if-else sentences. For example, behavior
tree and ﬁnite state machine have been well studied and demonstrated to be practically
useful for decades. SAIDA [31], a pure rule-based AI in StarCraft: Brood War, won the 2018
AIIDE tournament. However, an important drawback for systems based on behavior tree,
ﬁnite state machine or rule-based systems is that they lack the ability to learn. That is, these
systems can not evolve automatically. RGPS thus provides a hybrid learning solution to fuse
expert knowledge into a parameterized policy through RL’s exploration.
In our implementation, the ‘Morph Lair’ example mentioned above is an exact case used
in RGPS. We code a few other game logics in the same way, and we will list all of these
logics in the experimental section. These hand-craft rules might not be optimal, but they can
indeed eﬃciently promote exploration through RGPS and the policy will then be optimized
by policy gradient. RGPS is only activated for MA in our experiments.
4.7. Stabilized Policy Improvement with DAPO
Divergence-Augmented Policy Optimization (DAPO) [? ] was originally derived for
stabilized policy optimization from the scope of mirror descent algorithms. In the policy
space, the mirror descent step can be explained as penalized policy gradient with a Bregman
divergence term between two successive policies. Choosing a speciﬁc form of the function in
the Bregman divergence will recover the KL divergence. In our league training, we apply
DAPO at the agent level that the successive policies in the KL divergence are deﬁned as
16

two successive stored models with gap between them as a learning period (around 12 hours).
Empirically, our objective after activating DAPO is
LRL + LRGPS + LDAPO,
(3)
where
LDAPO = KL
 πθt−1(·|s)||πθt(·|s)

,
(4)
and t is the index of the learning period. Heuristically, LDAPO constrains the training policy
to stay close to its previous historical ﬁxed model, and hence explorations are within a
reasonable space, similar to Ldistill which forces the policy to stay close to human strategies.
The diﬀerence is that the teacher policy shifts in DAPO as the league training proceeds
while in Ldistill the teacher policy is always ﬁxed as the supervised agent. An important
necessity for using DAPO in our case is that our supervised agent is indeed not strong
enough. AlphaStar’s supervised agent has been validated to reach Diamond level in Battle.net
oﬃcially, while our supervised agent loses some games when playing with Platinum human
players half the time. We conjecture this is due to the signiﬁcantly reduced network size
and imitating only Zerg v.s. Zerg replays. Therefore, in AlphaStar, even after reseting the
exploiters to the supervised agent, the exploiters can still quickly catch up with the MA
within a single learning period. Hence, consistently constraining MA to stay close to the
supervised agent will be a natural choice for AlphaStar. However, in our case, situations
become totally diﬀerent. For exploiters, we have proposed new agent rules such as AEE to
continually training the exploiters to avoid the embarrassed situation that once reseting they
will never catch up with the MA. For MA, apparently, consistently restricting MA around
the supervised agent prevents MA from improving eﬃciently. Therefore, DAPO is necessary
to promote policy improvement. In our implementation, DAPO is only activated for the ﬁrst
4 minutes of an episode and the agent is free to explore after that. As we will show in the
experiments, by doing so, policy improvement can be signiﬁcantly promoted.
4.8. The Entire Infrastructure
All the introduced techniques are implemented under an infrastructure depicted in Figure 4.
To scale up the training, we adopt a distributed learner-actor architecture, where the actors
are deployed on CPU machines to let the agent interact with the game core to generate
trajectories and send them to the learner, and the learners are deployed on GPU machines to
train the parameters using the received trajectories. Similar to SEED, we employ a GPU
Inference Server (InfServer) to leverage the GPUs for action inference on actors. Compared
to the scheme of using pure CPUs for action inference, using InfServer reduces 34% of CPU
usage while maintaining the same data generation speed. Importantly, the infrastructure is
specially designed for multi-agent learning that a League Manager (LeagueMgr) schedules
the matches and keeps track of all the historical models. The entire infrastructure is referred
to as TLeague [33]. The full-scale training is run over a Kubernetes cluster on Tencent Cloud.
Please refer to [33] for more details.
17

ReplayMem
DataServer
ML copies
MG copies
MI copies
Env
Agt
MA copies
InfServer
MP copies
ModelPool
HyperMgr
GameMgr
Saver
Trajectories
Obs
Act
NN param
Outcome
Task
Task
NN param
NN param
NN param
Actor
Learner
LeagueMgr
Figure 4:
The framework of the entire training architecture TLeague.
5. Results
In our experiments, the full scale of computational resources contains 144 NVDIA v100
GPUs and 13,440 CPU cores on Tencent Cloud.
This section includes comprehensive
experimental results, including studies of one formal league training experiment with full
computation scale that lasts for 57 days, several ablation league training experiments each of
which is running with full computation scale and lasts for 7 days, imitation learning results,
and full scale of testing matches for evaluation, etc. We access every detail of the learning
and show which are the most sensitive parts that aﬀect the agent performance.
5.1. Overall Performance
5.1.1. Human Evaluation
Within 57 days of league training of the formal experiment, we invite four human players
oﬃcially ranked at Master and Grandmaster in Battle.net League to evaluate the trained
agents. For all the matches, we let MAs play with human players. We use unconditional
policy, i.e., zero z-stat, with 50% probability and randomly sample z-stat from the top-25
z-stats (of the according MA) from the 174 z-stats used for training for another half of the
time. There are two modes for humans and AIs to join a game: local and remote. For local
connection, the AI agent is deployed on a single laptop with a single GeForce GTX 1650
GPU, and the human player uses a laptop under the same local network. The agent then
suﬀers an additional 134ms delay (in average, for inference and lag in real time mode) except
its predicted delay from its NOOP head. For remote connection, the AI agent is deployed on
a Tencent Cloud Virtual Machine with one NVIDIA v100 GPU, and the human players are
free to choose their local equipments. For remote connection, the agent suﬀers an additional
18

(a)
DLT+RGPS+DAPO
DLT+RGPS
Elite-bot
(b)
Figure 5:
(a) The payoﬀmatrix from the Round Robin tournament of the models in the formal experiment’s
league. (b) ELO scores of agents in the formal experiment’s league. Each point represents a historical agent,
evaluated against the entire league and the Elite-bot, which is referenced as the baseline with zero ELO
score. Cycles indicate MAs, triangles indicate exploiters with their types in diﬀerent colors, and squares are
supervised models.
179ms delay except its predicted delay from its NOOP head. The invited two Grandmaster
players are at diﬀerent locations and have to join the game using the remote mode.
The overall human evaluation results are depicted in Table 5. Each human player is asked
to play at least three consecutive matches and additional matches depending on their interests.
TStarBot-X loses one match against a Grandmaster player. Replays can be downloaded from
the public link. Some evaluations received from the Grandmaster players: “it can play with
diverse strategies across matches”, “it locates its Overlords perfectly”, “its economic operation
is professional”. On the other side, the Grandmaster who won one of ﬁve consecutive matches
points out that “it is not good at multitasking and counter-multitasking”.
Table 5: Overall results from human evaluation. The score formats as “Human player : TStarBot-X’s MA”.
Human player rank
League region
Expertise
Played
Mode/Lag
Score
Training days
Master
CN
Protoss
Zerg
Local
0:11
47
Master
CN
Protoss, Terran
Zerg
Local
0:13
49
Grandmaster∗
US
Zerg
Zerg
Remote
0:3
55
Grandmaster
KR, CN (Top-50)
Zerg, Protoss
Zerg
Remote
1:4
55
Grandmaster∗
US
Zerg
Zerg
Remote
0:4
57
* The same human player played on diﬀerent dates.
5.1.2. League Evaluation
In the formal experiment, the league consists of one MA and 8 exploiters. The MA is
assigned with 32 GPUs for training and each exploiter is assigned with 8 GPUs for training,
and hence there are a total number of 96 GPUs used for training and another 48 GPUs
used for inference via InfServer. The 8 exploiters are combinations of ME/LE/SE and
AEE, i.e., AEE with distinct initial supervised model or opponent matching mechanism,
which we denote as AEE-General (ME+AEE), AEE-League (LE+AEE), AEE-Hydralisk
19

Table 6: Rules used in RGPS.
Rules on
Explanation
Morph Lair
After observing opponent has done so
Morph Overseer
After observing opponent’s Lurker
Build Lurkerden
After observing opponent’s Lurker
Build Spire/Hydraliskden
After observing opponent’s air unit
Train Viper
After seeing many opponent’s Lurkers
Morph Hive
If ‘Train Viper’ rule is activated
(SE+AEE), AEE-Lurker (SE+AEE), AEE-Mutalisk (SE+AEE), AEE-Nydus (SE+AEE),
AEE-TunnelingClaws (SE+AEE) and AEE-WorkerRush (SE+AEE). In the ﬁrst 42 days
of training, DLT and RGPS are activated, and after that DAPO is activated additionally.
This is an empirical choice, and it is expensive to repeat the entire formal experiment with
diﬀerent conﬁgurations. However, we will use some shorter league training experiments to
evaluate the eﬀectiveness of each component. Table 6 provides a list of all rules used in RGPS
in our experiments.
During 57 days of training, a total number of 25,708,491 matches are generated by all
the actors, and a total number of 583 agents are generated, including 124 main agents,
452 exploiters and 7 initial supervised models. We select half of these models stored every
two learning periods, and perform Round Robin tournament among these models. That is,
any pair of these models will be tested for 100 matches. For all the testing matches, the
conﬁguration of z-stat follows the conﬁguration in training. After a total number of around 4
million testing matches, we obtain the payoﬀmatrix shown in Figure 5(a). The rows/columns
are ranked by agent types and training time. Important conclusions can be drawn from
Figure 5(a) are: (1) for each type of the agents, their strength is consistently increasing with
higher win-rates against earlier models; (2) for each type of the exploiters, continually training
allows they are consistently competitive compared to MA (recall the working mechanism of
AEE); by comparision, the payoﬀmatrix in AlphaStar [1] shows that its MEs can rarely catch
up with its MA as the training proceeds, and therefore these computational eﬀorts should be
more reasonably reallocated; (3) the strength of all the agents is signiﬁcantly improved after
DAPO activated. Figure 5(b) shows the ELO scores of the agents in the league. As we can
observe, the MA consistently improves while the exploiters can also catch up with the MA
as the training proceeds. Again, it is obvious that DAPO signiﬁcantly promotes the policy
improvement after its activation.
5.1.3. Key Components Evaluation in League Training
In addition to the formal experiment, we also conduct several ablation studies, each of
which uses full scale of the computational resources as the formal experiment but runs for
a week. The compared settings are AlphaStar Surrogate, DLT (only), DLT+RGPS and
DLT+RGPS+DAPO. AlphaStar Surrogate is constructed by composing the league with one
MA (assigned with 32 GPUs), two MEs (each with 16 GPUs), and two LEs (each with 16
GPUs). To compare among diﬀerent leagues, we use the Relative Population Performance
20

(a)
(b)
Figure 6:
Comparing diﬀerent league compositions using RPP. (a) comparison between the entire leagues;
(b) comparison between MAs.
(RPP) [1], that is the payoﬀvalue of the Nash solution between two leagues. To test the
RPP value between league A and league B, we let every agent in A play against every agent
in B with 100 matches. For all the testing matches, the conﬁguration of z-stat follows the
conﬁguration in training. We use the AlphaStar Surrogate as the reference league. Figure 6
shows the test RPP of diﬀerent conﬁgurations when comparing the whole league and the
MAs, respectively. By using DLT, although the entire league’s RPP is only slightly higher
than AlphaStar Surrogate, the RPP of the MAs increases apparently, indicating the MAs in
DLT are more robust and stronger than the MAs in AlphaStar Surrogate. It is not surprising
that the RPP increment of the entire league of DLT is not obvious, because at early stage of
the league training, MA is not strong and AEEs can easily catch up with MA; then, according
to the scheme of AEE, these exploiters reset to their supervised agents, and therefore act
like ME and LE; also, in DLT, each exploiter is assigned with only 8 GPUs and hence their
policy improvement is limited compared to MEs and LEs in AlphaStar Surrogate. However,
the diversity generated from DLT results in more robust MAs. This can further be veriﬁed
in Figure 7(a), which shows the occurrence probability of most main Zerg units, upgrades
and buildings in all the training matches of the last day of training. From the ﬁgure, it is
clear that the exploiters in DLT show much diverse units, upgrades and buildings, while
the non-zero quantities of AlphaStar Surrogate are mainly concentrated at the left side.
By adding RGPS, we also observe slight RPP improvement of both the league and MAs
comparison, with DLT as the reference. It is not surprising either that the RPP values are
with slight increment because very few critical states are considered in RGPS (see Table 6).
However, when considering these critical states, Figure 7(b) demonstrates that RGPS indeed
ﬁts these rules in the policy to enhance the probability of these relevant actions. Finally,
after adding DAPO, the RPP values against AlphaStar Surrogate signiﬁcantly increases for
both league and MAs comparisons, showing the eﬀectiveness of DAPO in promoting policy
improvement.
5.2. Other Results
5.2.1. Build-in Bots Evaluation
We report build-in bots evaluation results for both the supervised agents from IL and
some early agents from the formal experiment. Figure 8(a) shows the testing win-rates of the
21

ZERGLING
ZERGLINGMETABOLICBOOST
ROACH
ZERGMISSILEWEAPONS
LAIR
RAVAGER
GLIALREGENERATION
BANELING
SPINECRAWLER
ZERGGROUNDARMOR
OVERSEER
SPORECRAWLER
SPIRE
ZERGMELEEWEAPONS
MUTALISK
BURROW
NYDUSNETWORK
PNEUMATIZEDCARAPACE
NYDUSWORM
HYDRALISKDEN
ZERGFLYERATTACK
HYDRALISK
CONTAMINATE
GROOVEDSPINES
INFESTATIONPIT
MUSCULARAUGMENTS
TUNNELINGCLAWS
CORRUPTOR
LURKERDENMP
CENTRIFUGALHOOKS
HIVE
LURKER
INFESTOR
ZERGFLYERARMOR
ADAPTIVETALONS
VIPER
Units, Upgrades and Buildings
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Occurrence Probability
Exploiter Diversity
DLT
AlphaStar Surrogate
(a)
LAIR
OVERSEER
SPIRE
HYDRALISKDEN
HIVE
LURKERDENMP
VIPER
Production Encouraged by The Rules in RGPS
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Occurrence Probability
Main Agent Diversity
DLT
DLT+RGPS
(b)
Figure 7:
(a) Exploiters’ diversity in the league: units, upgrades and buildings’ occurrence probability in
all exploiters’ matches of last training day of the 7 days. (b) The occurrence probability of the units and
buildings considered in RGPS with respect to Table 6, counted in MA’s matches in the last training day of
the 7 days.
0h
4h
8h
12h
16h
20h
24h
28h
32h
36h
40h
44h
48h
Training time (hours)
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Win-rate
vs. build-in bot level 4
vs. build-in bot level 5
vs. build-in bot level 6
vs. build-in bot level 7
vs. build-in bot level 8
vs. build-in bot level 9
vs. build-in bot level 10
(a) W/ importance sampling
0h
4h
8h
12h
16h
20h
24h
28h
32h
36h
40h
44h
48h
Training time (hours)
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Win-rate
vs. build-in bot level 10
vs. build-in bot level 4
vs. build-in bot level 5
vs. build-in bot level 6
vs. build-in bot level 7
vs. build-in bot level 8
vs. build-in bot level 9
(b) W/o importance sampling
0h
12h
24h
36h
48h
60h
72h
84h
96h
108h
120h
Training time (hours)
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Win-rate
vs. build-in bot level 4
vs. build-in bot level 5
vs. build-in bot level 6
vs. build-in bot level 7
vs. build-in bot level 8
vs. build-in bot level 9
vs. build-in bot level 10
(c) Win-rates in early league
Figure 8: (a)-(b) Comparison of IL with and without importance sampling. (c) Win-rates of the agents in
early league training. Each point indicates the win-rate of a stored model against the corresponding build-in
bot, averaged over 100 testing matches.
supervised agents against the build-in bots from level 4 to level 10 as the imitation learning
proceeds. Each point indicates an average win-rate from 100 matches and the agent randomly
samples a z-stat from a subset of 174 human replays with the winner’s MMR ≥6200 on
the Kairos Junction map. For an ablation study, we also provide the training curve by
removing importance sampling and Figure 8(b) shows the test win-rates. Obviously, training
the agent using the original data distribution signiﬁcantly reduces the performance. Similar
to IL, we provide evaluation results of the main agents from early league training against the
build-in bots. Figure 3 shows the testing curve and we observe that the reinforced agent can
consistently enhance its performance against the build-in bots although it never meet any of
them in its league training.
22

None:init_model
init_model:0001
0001:0511
init_model:0004
0004:0011
0011:0014
0014:0022
0022:0026
0026:0033
0033:0038
0038:0045
0045:0050
0050:0056
0056:0060
0060:0067
0067:0072
0072:0079
0079:0083
0083:0090
0090:0094
0094:0101
0101:0106
0106:0113
0113:0117
0117:0123
0123:0126
0126:0135
0135:0138
0138:0146
0146:0149
0149:0157
0157:0160
0160:0169
0169:0172
0172:0180
0180:0183
0183:0189
0189:0192
0192:0198
0198:0203
0203:0209
0209:0214
0214:0221
0221:0226
0226:0231
0231:0233
0233:0240
0240:0242
0242:0249
0249:0251
0251:0258
0258:0260
0260:0267
0267:0269
0269:0276
0276:0278
0278:0285
0285:0287
0287:0293
0293:0296
0296:0302
0302:0305
0305:0311
0311:0314
0314:0320
0320:0323
0323:0329
0329:0332
0332:0338
0338:0341
0341:0347
0347:0350
0350:0356
0356:0358
0358:0364
0364:0368
0368:0373
0373:0378
init_model:0009
0009:0010
0010:0012
0012:0020
0020:0023
0023:0031
0031:0034
0034:0036
0036:0044
0044:0046
0046:0054
0054:0057
0057:0064
0064:0068
0068:0070
0070:0078
0078:0080
0080:0088
0088:0091
0091:0097
0097:0102
0102:0104
0104:0112
0112:0114
0114:0124
0124:0127
0127:0134
0134:0137
0137:0143
0143:0147
0147:0150
0150:0158
0158:0161
0161:0168
0168:0171
0171:0177
0177:0181
0181:0184
0184:0190
0190:0193
0193:0201
0201:0204
0204:0212
0212:0215
0215:0220
0220:0225
0225:0232
0232:0235
0235:0241
0241:0244
0244:0250
0250:0253
0253:0259
0259:0262
0262:0268
0268:0271
0271:0277
0277:0280
0280:0286
0286:0288
0288:0295
0295:0297
0297:0304
0304:0306
0306:0313
0313:0315
0315:0322
0322:0324
0324:0331
0331:0333
0333:0340
0340:0346
0346:0349
0349:0355
0355:0359
0359:0367
0367:0375
0375:0379
0379:0385
0385:0388
0388:0393
0393:0396
0396:0407
0407:0411
0411:0415
0415:0419
0419:0423
0423:0427
0427:0431
0431:0435
0435:0439
0439:0443
0443:0447
0447:0451
0451:0455
0455:0459
0459:0465
0465:0467
0467:0473
0473:0476
0476:0481
0481:0484
0484:0489
0489:0492
0492:0497
0497:0500
0500:0505
0505:0508
0508:0513
0513:0516
0516:0521
0521:0525
0525:0529
0529:0533
0533:0537
0537:0540
0540:0545
0545:0548
0548:0553
0553:0556
0556:0561
0561:0564
0564:0569
0569:0571
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
init_model:0017
0017:0030
0030:0041
0041:0052
0052:0062
0062:0074
0074:0085
0085:0096
0096:0108
0108:0119
0119:0130
0130:0141
0141:0152
0152:0163
0163:0174
0174:0185
0185:0194
0194:0219
0219:0228
0228:0237
0237:0246
0246:0255
0255:0291
0291:0300
0300:0309
0309:0318
0318:0327
0327:0343
0343:0351
0351:0370
0370:0381
0381:0389
0389:0397
0397:0408
0408:0416
0416:0424
0424:0432
0432:0440
0440:0448
0448:0456
0456:0463
0463:0471
0471:0479
0479:0495
0495:0503
0503:0520
0520:0536
0536:0544
0544:0560
init_model:0208
0208:0264
0264:0273
0273:0282
0282:0336
0336:0361
0361:0487
0487:0528
0528:0552
0552:0568
init_hl:0006
0006:0019
0019:0025
0025:0037
0037:0048
0048:0061
0061:0073
0073:0084
0084:0095
0095:0107
0107:0118
0118:0140
0140:0175
0175:0211
0211:0223
init_hl:0129
init_hl:0153
init_hl:0164
init_hl:0200
init_lu:0005
0005:0013
0013:0024
0024:0035
0035:0047
0047:0058
0058:0069
0069:0081
0081:0092
0092:0115
0115:0159
0159:0170
0170:0182
0182:0191
0191:0213
0213:0234
0234:0252
0252:0270
0270:0365
0365:0384
0384:0392
0392:0464
0464:0472
0472:0480
0480:0488
0488:0496
0496:0504
0504:0512
0512:0519
0519:0527
0527:0543
0543:0551
0551:0559
0559:0567
init_lu:0103
init_lu:0125
init_lu:0136
0136:0374
init_lu:0148
init_lu:0202
init_lu:0224
init_lu:0243
init_lu:0261
init_lu:0279
init_lu:0289
init_lu:0298
init_lu:0307
0307:0399
0399:0409
0409:0418
0418:0425
0425:0433
0433:0441
0441:0449
0449:0457
0457:0535
init_lu:0316
init_lu:0325
init_lu:0334
init_lu:0342
init_lu:0352
init_lu:0363
init_lu:0372
init_lu:0401
0401:0426
0426:0450
init_lu:0403
0403:0417
init_lu:0410
0410:0434
0434:0458
0458:0466
0466:0474
0474:0482
0482:0490
0490:0498
0498:0506
0506:0514
0514:0522
0522:0530
0530:0538
0538:0546
0546:0554
0554:0562
0562:0570
init_lu:0442
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
init_ml:0007
0007:0015
0015:0042
0042:0065
0065:0076
0076:0087
0087:0110
0110:0121
0121:0132
0132:0144
0144:0166
0166:0178
0178:0197
0197:0207
0207:0217
0217:0229
0229:0236
0236:0245
0245:0254
0254:0263
0263:0272
0272:0290
0290:0299
0299:0308
0308:0317
0317:0326
0326:0335
0335:0362
0362:0380
0380:0387
0387:0430
0430:0462
0462:0486
0486:0494
0494:0502
0502:0510
0510:0518
0518:0526
0526:0534
0534:0550
0550:0566
init_ml:0028
0028:0053
0053:0099
0099:0155
0155:0187
0187:0281
0281:0344
0344:0353
0353:0369
0369:0395
0395:0406
0406:0414
0414:0421
0421:0438
0438:0446
0446:0470
0470:0478
0478:0542
0542:0558
0558:0574
init_ml:0454
init_ny:0003
0003:0016
0016:0027
0027:0039
0039:0049
0049:0059
0059:0071
0071:0082
0082:0093
0093:0105
0105:0131
0131:0154
0154:0165
0165:0176
0176:0186
0186:0218
0218:0239
0239:0265
0265:0274
0274:0283
0283:0292
0292:0301
0301:0310
0310:0319
0319:0328
0328:0337
0337:0345
0345:0360
0360:0382
0382:0398
0398:0413
0413:0422
0422:0437
0437:0445
0445:0453
0453:0461
0461:0477
0477:0493
0493:0517
0517:0532
0532:0549
0549:0573
init_ny:0116
0116:0565
init_ny:0142
0142:0557
init_ny:0195
0195:0390
0390:0501
0501:0509
init_ny:0206
init_ny:0227
0227:0485
init_ny:0248
0248:0524
init_ny:0257
0257:0404
0404:0429
0429:0468
init_ny:0354
init_ny:0371
0371:0541
init_tc:0008
0008:0021
0021:0032
0032:0043
0043:0055
0055:0066
0066:0077
0077:0089
0089:0100
0100:0111
0111:0122
0122:0133
0133:0145
0145:0156
0156:0167
0167:0179
0179:0188
0188:0196
0196:0205
0205:0216
0216:0230
0230:0238
0238:0266
0266:0275
0275:0294
0294:0303
0303:0312
0312:0330
0330:0339
0339:0357
0357:0366
0366:0402
0402:0460
0460:0475
0475:0483
0483:0507
0507:0531
0531:0563
init_tc:0247
0247:0376
0376:0428
0428:0436
0436:0444
0444:0452
0452:0469
0469:0491
0491:0523
0523:0547
0547:0572
init_tc:0256
init_tc:0284
init_tc:0321
0321:0386
0386:0394
0394:0405
0405:0412
0412:0420
0420:0499
0499:0515
0515:0539
0539:0555
init_tc:0348
init_wr:0002
0002:0051
0051:0120
0120:0151
0151:0383
init_wr:0018
0018:0029
0029:0040
0040:0063
0063:0075
0075:0086
0086:0098
0098:0109
0109:0128
0128:0139
0139:0162
0162:0173
0173:0199
0199:0210
0210:0222
0222:0391
None:init_hl
None:init_lu
None:init_ml
None:init_ny
None:init_tc
None:init_wr
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
The training main agent (0569:0571)'s win-rates against the entire league
Figure 9: The training MA’s win-rates against the entire league at the 57th day of training.
5.2.2. Opponent Matching Status in League Training
Figure 9 shows the opponent matching status of MA in the entire league on the ﬁnal day
of the formal experiment. A number of 583 agents are generated and each agent is denoted
by a bar in the Figure. The agent ID consists of a parent ID following by the descendent
ID, separated by a colon. If the parent ID is ‘None’, it indicates that the model is one of
the initial models. The bar values indicate the win-rates of the training MA against all
other agents in the league at that time. The group of green bars (right hand side of the
top sub-ﬁgure) indicates all the MAs generated in history and the right-most one is the MA
that is under training. All the other colorful bars indicate various exploiters. Groups of
bars located together with the same color indicate an evolving branch of agents. As we can
observe, the training MA can almost beat all the historical agents with win-rate above 50%
except a few most recent exploiters.
5.2.3. Diversity in Supervised Models and MA’s Counter Strategies
In IL, we ﬁne-tuned K = 6 supervised models on 6 subsets of human replays, each of
which includes one the following units/upgrades/strategies: Hydralisk, Lurker, Mutalisk,
Nydus Network, TunnelingClaws, and Worker Rush. We indeed tried more subsets from
common human strategies while we ﬁnd that the above selected strategies are relatively more
competitive. We evaluate each of them by 100 matches versus the Elite-bot and the collected
unit counts are shown in Figure 10. The results demonstrate that ﬁne-tuning the model
using distinct subsets of replays is empirically eﬀective to provide initial diversities.
Next,
we show the robustness of the MA. A simple way to access MA’s robustness is varying its
opponents with diverse strategies and see how MA responses. For demonstration, we choose
some representative exploiters each of which focusing on a distinct strategy, including using
23

ZERGLING
BANELING
ROACH
RAVAGER
MUTALISK
HYDRALISK
LURKER
SPINECRAWLER
NYDUSNETWORK
NYDUSWORM
TUNNELINGCLAWS
0
2
4
6
8
sqrt(count)
IL-Mutalisk
IL-Hydralisk
IL-Nydus
IL-WorkerRush
IL-TunnelingClaws
IL-Lurker
Figure 10: Average (square root) unit counts for the ﬁne-tuned IL models in testing matches against the
Elite-bot.
ZERGLING
ROACH
DRONE
BANELING
QUEEN
RAVAGER
OVERSEER
MUTALISK
HYDRALISK
LURKER
VIPER
BROODLORD
CORRUPTOR
INFESTOR
SWARMHOST
ULTRALISK
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
sqrt(count)
Zergling and Baneling Rush
Lurker
Worker Rush
MA
Mutalisk
Figure 11: Average (square root) unit counts in MA’s counter strategies when it plays against diverse
opponents.
Zergling and Baneling rush, Worker rush, Mutalisk and Lurker, respectively. We then let
MA (with zero z-stat) play against these exploiters and itself to see how MA reacts after
seeing diﬀerent strategies. Figure 11 shows the average unit counts in MA’s counter strategies
when it plays against diverse opponents (100 matches for each). As we can see, MA performs
multiple strategies when it encounters diﬀerent opponents. When its opponent uses Zergling
and Baneling Rush, it responses with Zerglings and Banelings as well; when its opponent
produces Lurkers, the MA tends to produce more Overseers; when its opponent uses Mutalisk,
it bursts a large number of Hydralisks; for Self-Play, it prefers to use Roach, Zergling and
Ravager. These results demonstrate that the unconditional MA is a robust agent and is able
to use multiple counter-strategies.
5.2.4. Infrastructure Comparison
We use a distributed learner-actor infrastructure with 144 Tesla V100 GPUs and 13,440
CPU cores. In our formal experiment, 96 GPUs are used for training and the rest GPUs
are used for inference. Generally, we assign 32 GPUs for training the MA and 64 GPUs
are alternatively allocated to diﬀerent exploiters. Each training GPU is allocated with 70
actors, running 70 concurrent matches, and each actor is assigned with 2 CPU cores. A total
number of used GPUs and CPUs has been given in Table 1. All the computation resources
are deployed on the Tencent Cloud. In our infrastructure, the data consuming speed is 210
fps/GPU, and the replay buﬀer of each GPU receives data with a speed of 43 fps. That
is, each data point will be used ﬁve times in average. In AlphaStar’s infrastructure, its
consuming speed is 390 fps/TPU core and the data generating speed is 195 fps with each
24

ZERGLING
ROACH
DRONE
BANELING
QUEEN
RAVAGER
OVERSEER
MUTALISK
HYDRALISK LURKER
VIPER
BROODLORD
CORRUPTOR
INFESTOR
SWARMHOST
ULTRALISK
0
2
4
6
8
10
sqrt(count)
AlphaStar-Mid-ZvZ
AlphaStar-Mid-ZvP
AlphaStar-Mid-ZvT
AlphaStar-Final-ZvZ
AlphaStar-Final-ZvP
AlphaStar-Final-ZvT
Figure 12: Average (square root) unit counts in AlphaStar Zerg’s human evaluation replays.
data sample used twice in its replay buﬀer. Table 1 provides a detailed comparison. From
the perspective of the entire league training, AlphaStar’s total consuming/generating speed
in the league is about 30/73 times faster than that in TStarBot-X. Although this is indeed
not straightforwardly comparable, since AlphaStar learns to play three races on four SC2
maps and we only focus on Zerg vs. Zerg on the Kairos Junction map, we can still observe
the scale diﬀerences of the two systems.
6. Discussion and Conclusion
We end up the manuscript with a discussion of the AlphaStar and TStarBot-X’s ﬁnal
agents. With curiosity on the Zerg MA’s performance in AlphaStar, we parse all AlphaStar’s
human evaluation replays and show its unit counts of the Zerg agent in Figure 12. It seems
that AlphaStar’s Zerg agent prefers to use a speciﬁc strategy that only produces Roach,
Zergling, Ravager and Queen in all its Zerg vs. Zerg (ZvZ) matches. A few other units can
be observed only in its Zerg vs. Terran (ZvT) and Zerg vs. Protoss (ZvP) matches. Although
these statistics might be biased from AlphaStar’s training distribution, it probably suggests
that 1) exploration and keeping diversity (in a single policy) in ZvZ game are diﬃcult; 2) a
joint training with all three races can enhance the diversity in the league. TStarBot-X has
a more diversiﬁed league and more strategic diversity in a single policy, even though it is
trained under a much smaller scale of computations and ZvZ setting. However, TStarBot-X
is not good at multitasking and counter-multitasking, from the evaluation of Grandmaster
human player.
Overall, in this paper, we provided a detailed study on training a competitive AI agent
in SC2 under limited scale of computation resources. We encountered problems when we
reimplemented the settings in AlphaStar, and we then proposed new techniques to solve
these problems. The study suggests that 1) when the computations are insuﬃcient to aﬀord
enough explorations in a complex problem, diversiﬁed league training with mixture of the
proposed agent roles could be a more eﬃcient way to provide diversity in the league; 2)
rule-guided policy search is an eﬀective way to fuse human knowledge into a neural network
to avoid tedious explorations; 3) divergence-augmented policy optimization on the agent
level can signiﬁcantly enhance policy improvement. Most importantly, the entire system is
open-sourced and we expect that this might be useful for future AI research in solving similar
problems, policy transfer from the released parameters, and so on. For future directions,
25

we are interested in applying the proposed techniques and infrastructure to other complex
multi-agent systems and apply to read-world applications.
Acknowledgement
We would like to thank Zhong Fan, Lei Jiang, Yan Wang, Zhihuai Wen and Yang Liu
for providing us specialized advices in SC2. We would like to thank our colleagues from
Department of AI Platform and Tencent Cloud for their valuable discussions and supports.
We would like to show respect to and thank Blizzard Entertainment for creating StarCraft.
Lei Han and Peng Sun are faithful players of StarCraft: Brood War since its release. Lei Han
plays Zerg. Peng Sun and Lei Han would like to show gratitudes to their boyhood friends
who had ever played StarCraft together with them. We could not play StarCraft forever but
can be brothers for a lifetime.
Author Contributions
Lei Han, Jiechao Xiong and Peng Sun contributed equally. Peng Sun organized the
infrastructure. Lei Han, Jiechao Xiong and Peng Sun designed, built and experimented
multiple versions of environmental spaces, neural network architectures, RL algorithms,
league training methods, etc., with early contributions from Xinghai Sun. Peng Sun, Jiechao
Xiong and Lei Han completed the engineering, evaluation, visualization and analyzing tools.
Meng Fang, Qingwei Guo, Qiaobo Chen, Tengfei Shi, Hongsheng Yu and Xipeng Wu helped
reviewing the project codes and experimenting with some ablations. Lei Han wrote the paper
with contributions from Peng Sun, Jiechao Xiong and Meng Fang. Zhengyou Zhang provided
general scope advices and consistently supported the team.
References
[1] Oriol Vinyals, Igor Babuschkin, Wojciech M Czarnecki, Michaël Mathieu, Andrew Dudzik, Jun-
young Chung, David H Choi, Richard Powell, Timo Ewalds, Petko Georgiev, et al. Grandmaster
level in starcraft ii using multi-agent reinforcement learning. Nature, 575(7782):350–354, 2019.
[2] Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Andrei A Rusu, Joel Veness, Marc G
Bellemare, Alex Graves, Martin Riedmiller, Andreas K Fidjeland, Georg Ostrovski, et al.
Human-level control through deep reinforcement learning. Nature, 518(7540):529, 2015.
[3] David Silver, Aja Huang, Chris J Maddison, Arthur Guez, Laurent Sifre, George Van Den Driess-
che, Julian Schrittwieser, Ioannis Antonoglou, Veda Panneershelvam, Marc Lanctot, et al.
Mastering the game of go with deep neural networks and tree search. nature, 529(7587):484,
2016.
[4] David Silver, Julian Schrittwieser, Karen Simonyan, Ioannis Antonoglou, Aja Huang, Arthur
Guez, Thomas Hubert, Lucas Baker, Matthew Lai, Adrian Bolton, et al. Mastering the game of
go without human knowledge. Nature, 550(7676):354, 2017.
26

[5] Max Jaderberg, Wojciech M Czarnecki, Iain Dunning, Luke Marris, Guy Lever, Antonio Garcia
Castaneda, Charles Beattie, Neil C Rabinowitz, Ari S Morcos, Avraham Ruderman, et al.
Human-level performance in 3d multiplayer games with population-based reinforcement learning.
Science, 364(6443):859–865, 2019.
[6] Open ai ﬁve. https://blog.openai.com/openai-five/. 2018.
[7] Peng Sun, Xinghai Sun, Lei Han, Jiechao Xiong, Qing Wang, Bo Li, Yang Zheng, Ji Liu,
Yongsheng Liu, Han Liu, et al. Tstarbots: Defeating the cheating level built-in ai in starcraft ii
in the full game. arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.07193, 2018.
[8] Michał Kempka, Marek Wydmuch, Grzegorz Runc, Jakub Toczek, and Wojciech Jaśkowski.
Vizdoom: A doom-based ai research platform for visual reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1605.02097, 2016.
[9] Nicolas Usunier, Gabriel Synnaeve, Zeming Lin, and Soumith Chintala. Episodic exploration for
deep deterministic policies: An application to starcraft micromanagement tasks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1609.02993, 2016.
[10] Oriol Vinyals, Timo Ewalds, Sergey Bartunov, Petko Georgiev, Alexander Sasha Vezhnevets,
Michelle Yeo, Alireza Makhzani, Heinrich Küttler, John Agapiou, Julian Schrittwieser, et al.
Starcraft ii: a new challenge for reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1708.04782, 2017.
[11] Lei Han, Peng Sun, Yali Du, Jiechao Xiong, Qing Wang, Xinghai Sun, Han Liu, and Tong Zhang.
Grid-wise control for multi-agent reinforcement learning in video game ai. In International
Conference on Machine Learning, pages 2576–2585, 2019.
[12] Yali Du, Lei Han, Meng Fang, Ji Liu, Tianhong Dai, and Dacheng Tao. Liir: Learning individual
intrinsic reward in multi-agent reinforcement learning. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, pages 4403–4414, 2019.
[13] Islam Elnabarawy, Kristijana Arroyo, and Donald C Wunsch II.
Starcraft ii build order
optimization using deep reinforcement learning and monte-carlo tree search. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2006.10525, 2020.
[14] Tonghan Wang, Heng Dong, Victor Lesser, and Chongjie Zhang. Roma: Multi-agent rein-
forcement learning with emergent roles. In International Conference on Machine Learning,
2020.
[15] Xinyi Xu, Tiancheng Huang, Pengfei Wei, Akshay Narayan, and Tze-Yun Leong. Hierarchial
reinforcement learning in starcraft ii with human expertise in subgoals selection. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2008.03444, 2020.
[16] http://www.inspirai.com/research/scc?language=en.
[17] https://liquipedia.net/starcraft2/Zerg_Units_(Legacy_of_the_Void).
[18] John Schulman, Sergey Levine, Pieter Abbeel, Michael Jordan, and Philipp Moritz. Trust region
policy optimization. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1889–1897, 2015.
27

[19] John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal
policy optimization algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347, 2017.
[20] Lasse Espeholt, Hubert Soyer, Remi Munos, Karen Simonyan, Vlad Mnih, Tom Ward, Yotam
Doron, Vlad Firoiu, Tim Harley, Iain Dunning, et al. Impala: Scalable distributed deep-rl
with importance weighted actor-learner architectures. In International Conference on Machine
Learning, pages 1407–1416, 2018.
[21] Marc Lanctot, Vinicius Zambaldi, Audrunas Gruslys, Angeliki Lazaridou, Julien Perolat, David
Silver, Thore Graepel, et al. A uniﬁed game-theoretic approach to multiagent reinforcement
learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages 4190–4203, 2017.
[22] David Balduzzi, Marta Garnelo, Yoram Bachrach, Wojciech M Czarnecki, Julien Perolat, Max
Jaderberg, and Thore Graepel. Open-ended learning in symmetric zero-sum games. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1901.08106, 2019.
[23] Sriram Srinivasan, Marc Lanctot, Vinicius Zambaldi, Julien Pérolat, Karl Tuyls, Rémi Munos,
and Michael Bowling.
Actor-critic policy optimization in partially observable multiagent
environments. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages 3422–3435, 2018.
[24] Volodymyr Mnih, Adria Puigdomenech Badia, Mehdi Mirza, Alex Graves, Timothy Lillicrap,
Tim Harley, David Silver, and Koray Kavukcuoglu. Asynchronous methods for deep reinforcement
learning. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1928–1937, 2016.
[25] Mohammad Babaeizadeh, Iuri Frosio, Stephen Tyree, Jason Clemons, and Jan Kautz. Re-
inforcement learning through asynchronous advantage actor-critic on a gpu. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1611.06256, 2016.
[26] Lasse Espeholt, Raphaël Marinier, Piotr Stanczyk, Ke Wang, and Marcin Michalski. Seed rl:
Scalable and eﬃcient deep-rl with accelerated central inference. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.06591,
2019.
[27] Qing Wang, Jiechao Xiong, Lei Han, Meng Fang, Xinghai Sun, Zhuobin Zheng, Peng Sun,
and Zhengyou Zhang. Arena: a toolkit for multi-agent reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1907.09467, 2019.
[28] Andrei A Rusu, Sergio Gomez Colmenarejo, Caglar Gulcehre, Guillaume Desjardins, James
Kirkpatrick, Razvan Pascanu, Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, and Raia Hadsell. Policy
distillation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.06295, 2015.
[29] Christian Szegedy, Vincent Vanhoucke, Sergey Ioﬀe, Jon Shlens, and Zbigniew Wojna. Rethink-
ing the inception architecture for computer vision. In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 2818–2826, 2016.
[30] Sergey Levine and Vladlen Koltun. Guided policy search. In International Conference on
Machine Learning, pages 1–9, 2013.
[31] https://liquipedia.net/starcraft/SAIDA.
28

[32] Johannes Heinrich, Marc Lanctot, and David Silver. Fictitious self-play in extensive-form games.
In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 805–813, 2015.
[33] Peng Sun, Jiechao Xiong, Lei Han, Xinghai Sun, Shuxing Li, Jiawei Xu, Meng Fang, and
Zhang Zhengyou. TLeague: A framework for competitive self-play based distributed multi-agent
reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.12895, 2020.
29
