SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep Reinforcement Learning Agent
Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
Xiangjun Wang * 1 Junxiao Song * 1 Penghui Qi * 1 Peng Peng 1 Zhenkun Tang 1 Wei Zhang 1 Weimin Li 1
Xiongjun Pi 1 Jujie He 1 Chao Gao 1 Haitao Long 1 Quan Yuan 1
Abstract
AlphaStar, the AI that reaches GrandMaster level
in StarCraft II, is a remarkable milestone demon-
strating what deep reinforcement learning can
achieve in complex Real-Time Strategy (RTS)
games. However, the complexities of the game, al-
gorithms and systems, and especially the tremen-
dous amount of computation needed are big ob-
stacles for the community to conduct further re-
search in this direction. We propose a deep rein-
forcement learning agent, StarCraft Commander
(SCC). With order of magnitude less computation,
it demonstrates top human performance defeat-
ing GrandMaster players in test matches and top
professional players in a live event. Moreover, it
shows strong robustness to various human strate-
gies and discovers novel strategies unseen from
human plays. In this paper, we’ll share the key
insights and optimizations on efﬁcient imitation
learning and reinforcement learning for StarCraft
II full game.
1. Introduction
Games as research platforms have fueled a lot of recent
advances in reinforcement learning research. The success
of Atari (Mnih et al., 2013), AlphaGo (Silver et al., 2016),
OpenAI Five (Berner et al., 2019) and AlphaStar (Vinyals
et al., 2019b) have demonstrated the remarkable results
deep reinforcement learning can achieve in various game
environments.
As the game complexity increases, those advances come
with extremely large computational overhead. For example,
in order to train OpenAI Five that reaches Dota 2 profes-
sional level, it utilized thousands of GPUs over multiple
months (Berner et al., 2019). AlphaStar also trained on
*Equal contribution 1inspir.ai, Beijing, China. Correspondence
to: Xiangjun Wang <xj@inspirai.com>.
Proceedings of the 38 th International Conference on Machine
Learning, PMLR 139, 2021. Copyright 2021 by the author(s).
hundreds of TPUs for months (Vinyals et al., 2019b).
StarCraft, one of the most popular and complex Real-Time
Strategy (RTS) games, is considered as one of the grand
challenges for reinforcement learning. The reinforcement
learning algorithms need to make real-time decisions from
combinatorial action spaces, under partially observable in-
formation, plan over thousands of decision makings, and
deal with a large space of cyclic and counter strategies.
Competing with human players is especially challenging be-
cause humans excel at reacting to game plays and exploiting
opponents’ weaknesses.
In this paper, we propose StarCraft Commander (SCC). Sim-
ilar to AlphaStar, it comprises two training stages, starting
with imitation learning, followed by league style reinforce-
ment learning. We’ll describe what it takes to train a rein-
forcement learning agent to play at top human performance
with constrained compute resources, as well as the analysis
and key insights of model training and model behaviors.
First, we conduct extensive neural network architecture ex-
periments to squeeze the performance gain while reducing
memory footprint. For example, reducing the input minimap
size from 128 × 128 to 64 × 64 reduces the sample data
size almost by half with almost identical performance in
the supervised learning stage. We also observed additional
performance improvements with various techniques such
as group transformer, attention based pooling, conditioned
concat attention, etc.
Second, we evaluated the effect of data size and quality for
imitation learning. To our surprise, we were able to get most
of the performance using only a small number of replays
(4,638) compared to the full dataset (105,034 replays). The
additional performance gain of large dataset only comes
with large batch size. The best result can be obtained with
large dataset training with large batch size and ﬁne tuning
with small dataset of high quality replays. In the end, the
supervised learning model can beat the built-in elite bot with
97% win rate consistently.
Third, during the reinforcement learning stage, due to game
theoretic design of StarCraft, there exist vast spaces of strate-
gies and cyclic counter strategies. It’s crucial to have both
arXiv:2012.13169v3  [cs.LG]  9 Jun 2021

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
strength and diversity so that agents are robust and invulner-
able to various counter strategies, which are also the main
drivers behind the need for large computational resources.
We propose agent branching for efﬁcient training of main
agents and exploiters. Even though league training was re-
stricted on a single map and race, the agents exhibit strong
generalization playing against other races, on other maps,
including unseen ones.
Lastly, SCC was evaluated in test matches with players at
different levels. We also held a live match event against pro-
fessional players. SCC won all the matches against players
from GrandMaster to top professionals. According to the
feedback from those players, SCC not only learned to play
in a way similar to how humans play, but also discovered
new strategies that are rare among human games.
2. Related Work
In this section, we brieﬂy review early work for StarCraft
AI and describe AlphaStar algorithms.
StarCraft is a popular real time strategy game involving strat-
egy planning, balance of economy and micromanagement,
game theoretic challenge. Those combined challenges make
StarCraft an appealing platform for AI research. StarCraft:
Brood War has an active competitive AI research commu-
nity since 2010 (Ontanón et al., 2013; Weber, 2010), where
most bots are built with heuristic rules together with search
methods (Churchill & Buro, 2013; Churchill et al., 2017).
There has been some work using reinforcement learning
for mini-games and micromanagement (Peng et al., 2017;
Vinyals et al., 2017; Zambaldi et al., 2018; Foerster et al.,
2017; Usunier et al., 2016). Most recently, reinforcement
learning was used to play the full game, combined with
hand-crafted rules (Sun et al., 2018; Lee et al., 2018; Pang
et al., 2019). Even though some of the bots successfully beat
the game built-in AI (Sun et al., 2018; Pang et al., 2019),
none of the early work reached competitive human level.
AlphaStar is the ﬁrst end-to-end learning algorithm for Star-
Craft II full game that reaches GrandMaster level. It uses
imitation learning to learn initial policy from human replay
data, which not only provides a strong initialization for rein-
forcement learning, more importantly, it learns diverse sets
of human strategies that are extremely hard for reinforce-
ment learning to learn from scratch. It also uses statistic z to
encode build orders and build units for guiding play strategy.
In addition to self-play, league training is adopted for multi-
agent reinforcement learning. The league consists of three
distinct types of agents for each race, main agent, main ex-
ploiter and league exploiter. First, the main agents utilize a
prioritized ﬁctitious self-play (PFSP) mechanism that adapts
the mixture probabilities proportionally to the win rate of
each opponent against the agent, to dynamically focus more
on the difﬁcult opponents. Second, main exploiters play
only against current main agents to ﬁnd weaknesses in main
agents. Third, league exploiters use a similar PFSP mech-
anism against all agents to ﬁnd global blind spots in the
league. They work together to ensure the main agents im-
prove strength and robustness when competing with human
players.
AlphaStar introduced the ﬁrst version with high level ideas
described on a blog post (Vinyals et al., 2019a). It spe-
cialized in race Protoss and was evaluated against two pro-
fessional players. A revised version was published later
(Vinyals et al., 2019b). The later version changed the mech-
anism of league training to be more generic, utilized statstic
z to encode build order and units, and trained all three races
with constrained actions per minute (APM) and camera
interface setting. On the infrastructure side, a total of 12
separate training agents are instantiated with four for each
race, and for every training agent, it runs 16,000 concurrent
StarCraft II matches to collect samples and the learner pro-
cesses about 50,000 agent steps per second. It was evaluated
on the ofﬁcial online matching system Battle.net and rated
as the top level (GrandMaster) on the European server.
TStarBot-X (Han et al., 2020) is a recent attempt to reim-
plement AlphaStar, with specialization in race Zerg. It en-
countered difﬁculties reimplementing AlphaStar’s imitation
learning and league training strategy. To overcome those
issues, it introduced importance sampling in imitation learn-
ing, rule-guided policy search and new agent roles in league
training. Those methods helped efﬁciency and exploration
but it had to incorporate multiple hand-crafted rules such
as rule-guided policy search and curated datasets for 6 ﬁne-
tuned supervised model. In the end, the human evaluation
showed comparable performance with two human Master
players whose expertise are not race Zerg.
3. StarCraft Commander (SCC)
To the best of our knowledge, SCC is the ﬁrst learning-
based agent that reaches top human professional level after
AlphaStar, while using order of magnitude less computa-
tion and without using any hand-crafted rules. SCC was
developed around the time the ﬁrst version of AlphaStar was
published (Vinyals et al., 2019a) and adopted the main ideas
from it. SCC interacts with the game of StarCraft II (getting
observations and sending actions) using the s2client pro-
tocol (Blizzard) and the PySC2 environment (Deepmind),
provided by Blizzard and DeepMind respectively.
Without knowing all the AlphaStar algorithms details at
the time, we independently experimented with network ar-
chitecture, imitation and reinforcement learning training
mechanisms. Given our computational constraint, we did
extensive optimizations to squeeze the efﬁciencies out of

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
each stage of learning. Some of the major differences with
AlphaStar are highlighted below:
• Game setup is similar to the ﬁrst version of AlphaStar
(Vinyals et al., 2019a) except that SCC was trained
on race Terran, one of the more challenging races for
AI to learn. Although the algorithm is generic to any
race, we focus on one race to save computation and
evaluation efforts.
• AlphaStar uses 971,000 replays played on StarCraft
II versions 4.8.2 to 4.8.6. SCC only has access to a
much smaller dataset, with 105,034 replays on versions
4.10.0 to 4.11.2.
• SCC’s network architecture is similar to AlphaStar, but
more memory efﬁcient, with additional optimizations
such as group transformer, attention-based pooling,
etc. SCC’s ﬁnal reinforcement learning model has
49M parameters (139M for AlphaStar) (Vinyals et al.,
2019b).
• Each agent of SCC is trained using Proximal Policy
Optimization (PPO) (Schulman et al., 2017) in the re-
inforcement learning stage, with further modiﬁcations
to utilize asynchronous sampling and large scale dis-
tributed training.
• SCC also uses league training consisting of main agent,
main exploiter and league exploiter, but with multiple
main agents for more diversity. The agent branching
approach effectively improved learning efﬁciency of
main agents and main exploiters, resulting in strong
and robust pool of agents.
• SCC uses much fewer samples for learning. For each
agent, 1000 StarCraft environments are used to col-
lect samples (16,000 for AlphaStar) and the learner
consumes about 800 agent steps per second (50,000
for AlphaStar). In total, each agent experienced 30
years of real-time StarCraft play (200 game years for
AlphaStar) (Vinyals et al., 2019a;b).
• Since we don’t have access to ofﬁcial battle.net, we
invited human players of different competitive lev-
els (from Diamond to GrandMaster) to each play ﬁve
matches with SCC at different strength levels and SCC
won all of them. In the end, we held a live event to
play two sets of best of three matches with two top
professional players, SCC won both games with 2:0.
In the following sections, we describe the differences men-
tioned above in detail, including network architecture, imi-
tation learning, reinforcement learning and evaluations. For
brevity, the training platform is described in detail in Ap-
pendix B.
4. Network Architecture
With the same input and output interfaces provided by the
StarCraft II game engine, the overall network architecture
of SCC is similar to that of AlphaStar. From input to output,
the model architecture can be roughly divided into three
parts, i.e., input encoders, aggregator, and action decoders.
The input encoders take in three groups of observations, i.e.,
scalar features, spatial features and sets of units features,
process them separately and yield encoded feature vectors
accordingly. The encoded feature vectors are fed into the
aggregator, which concatenates all of them and feeds the
resulting vector into a residual LSTM block. Then, the
LSTM output is fed into the action decoder, which decides
the ﬁnal action based on the outputs of its six heads. For
more detailed network architecture, please refer to Fig. 4 in
Appendix A.
We also would like to further highlight some key designs,
which are the main contributors for improved computational
efﬁciency and expressive power of network architecture,
enabling learning a strong model using fewer than 5,000
replays during imitation learning.
• Network pruning: we use a spatial input size of 64x64
which reduces around half of the per-sample data size
compared to 128×128 for AlphaStar. In addition, in-
stead of the very deep 16 blocks of residual MLP used
in AlphaStar, a simple fully connected layer is chosen
for the selected action head in the action decoder. With
these simpliﬁcations, almost identical performance is
observed in supervised learning.
• Group transformer: among all the observations, the set
of units is most informative. In AlphaStar, all units
are put together and processed by a transformer. We
instead divided them into three groups, my units, en-
emy units and neutral units. Since they are naturally
heterogeneous, separate learning allows more degrees
of freedom. Speciﬁcally, for each group of units, one
multi-head self-attention block is applied to the units
within the group, and two multi-head cross attention
blocks are applied to units between groups. The out-
puts of the three blocks are concatenated together as
the ﬁnal encoded unit features.
• Attention-based pooling: the unit features encoded by
multi-head attention blocks are set of vectors. A sim-
ple average-pooling is applied in AlphaStar to reduce
them into a single vector. We propose attention-based
pooling, in which trainable weight vectors are created
as the queries, and the unit features are reduced by a
learned weighted averaging.
• Conditional structures: to deal with the combinato-
rial action space, AlphaStar uses an additive auto-

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
regressive action structure. Instead of the additive oper-
ator, we adopt the structure of concatenation followed
by a fully connected layer, to provide full ﬂexibility for
the network to learn a better conditional relationship.
In addition, different selected actions may have totally
different criteria when selecting the target, e.g. the
repair action tends to target damaged alliance units and
the attack action tends to target nearby enemy units.
In light of this, we propose the conditioned concat-
attention for target selection heads, in order to learn
different selection functions for different selected ac-
tions.
5. Imitation Learning
SCC was initially trained by imitating games sampled from
publicly available human replays. Supervised learning not
only provides good initialization for the following reinforce-
ment learning stage but also diverse human strategies that
are extremely difﬁcult to explore from scratch. Also, super-
vised learning makes it easy to evaluate policy architecture.
A good network architecture for supervised learning is also
likely to be good for reinforcement learning. The current
network architecture of SCC is the result of extensive exper-
iment studies. Details can be found in Appendix A. In this
section, we describe the settings applied in the supervised
learning stage and also provide ablation study results regard-
ing training conﬁgurations. Evaluation results of the model
obtained from supervised learning will also be presented.
5.1. Dataset and Setting
We used a dataset of 105,034 replays played on StarCraft
II versions 4.10.0 to 4.11.2 by players with MMR scores
greater than 4,300. Instructions for downloading replays
can be found at https://github.com/Blizzard/
s2client-proto. Note that since we only trained an
agent for race Terran, the dataset only consists of replays
of three race match-ups, i.e., Terran versus Terran, Terran
versus Protoss and Terran versus Zerg, with 34,487, 39,391
and 31,156 replays respectively.
5.2. Training Analysis
Dataset size and quality
In supervised learning, the size
and the quality of the dataset matter. We conducted several
ablation experiments regarding the impact of the datasets.
First, we constructed three datasets of different sizes, with
4,638, 15,579 and 105,034 replays respectively. In the fol-
lowing, we name them as small, medium and large dataset
accordingly. The large dataset is the full dataset, the small
dataset and medium dataset are subsets of replays sampled
from the large dataset. We trained supervised models using
these three datasets, with batch-size 3,850. The learning
rate was set to 1e-3 before 40,000 training steps and was
decayed to 1e-4 after that. During the training progress, we
evaluated the models against the built-in elite bot, and the
results are shown in Fig. 1 (a). Surprisingly, we observe that
the three resulting models perform quite similar, with peak
win rates all slightly above 70%. Given the huge complexity
of the StarCraft II full game, it is really amazing that the
model trained using a small dataset with fewer than 5,000
replays can already play reasonably well. One hypothesis is
the efﬁcient network architecture enables efﬁcient learning.
Our models during early version of development could not
achieve similar performance even with more data. It sug-
gests design of model architecture really matters in this case.
Although we do observe the performance of the model using
small dataset decreases quickly after the peak, indicating a
possibility of overﬁtting.
We also analyzed the impact of the quality of the dataset, in
terms of the MMR score. We ﬁltered out all replays with
MMR score greater than 5,300 from the large dataset, and
obtained a dataset of size 17,173, which is close to the size
of the medium dataset. We call it the MMR5300 dataset.
Then we trained a supervised model using the MMR5300
dataset, with all other settings same as above. The evaluation
results of the resulting model and that of the medium dataset
(MMR4300 dataset) are plotted together in Fig. 1 (b). It
is obvious that the performance of the model trained with
the MMR5300 dataset is almost always above that of the
MMR4300 dataset and the peak performance is around 85%,
about 10% higher than the MMR4300 dataset.
Batch size
In the previous paragraph, we have observed
that larger dataset did not lead to better performance. One
intuitive idea is that larger dataset may be more difﬁcult to
ﬁt, in order to get performance gain, we may need to use
a larger batch size. We take the performance of the large
dataset in Fig. 1 (a) as the baseline, which was trained with
batch size 3,850. With all other training settings ﬁxed, we
doubled the batch size to 7,700 and ran another training. The
evaluation results during the training progress are shown in
Fig. 1 (c). We can observe that with batch size doubled,
the performance is indeed improved, in terms of both the
learning speed and the peak win rate.
Final supervised training
Based on the experiment re-
sults above, we trained the ﬁnal supervised model with large
dataset ﬁrst, and then ﬁne tuned with a small but high qual-
ity dataset for additional gain. Speciﬁcally, we ﬁrst trained
the model using the full dataset with learning rate 1e-3 and
batch size 15,400, and then ﬁne tuned the model with the
MMR5500-win dataset and learning rate decayed to 1e-5.
MMR5500-win dataset is of size 3,458 and contains only
the winning replays with MMR score above 5,500. The
evaluation performance during this ﬁnal supervised training
progress is shown in Fig. 1 (d). At the late ﬁne-tuning stage,

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
0
10000 20000 30000 40000 50000 60000 70000
Training steps
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Win rate vs elite bot
(a)
small dataset
medium dataset
large dataset
0
10000 20000 30000 40000 50000 60000 70000
Training steps
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Win rate vs elite bot
(b)
MMR4300 dataset
MMR5300 dataset
0
10000 20000 30000 40000 50000 60000 70000
Training steps
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Win rate vs elite bot
(c)
batch-size 3850
batch-size 7700
0
20000
40000
60000
80000 100000 120000 140000
Training steps
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Win rate vs elite bot
(d)
normal training
fine-tuning MMR5500-win
Figure 1. Win rates versus the built-in elite bot during the supervised training progress of different trials. (a) Training runs using three
datasets of different sizes. The small, medium and large datasets all consist of replays with MMR scores greater than 4,300 and with
4,638, 15,579 and 105,034 replays, respectively. (b) Training runs using two datasets of different MMR scores. The MMR4300 dataset is
just the medium dataset, which consists of 15,579 replays and the MMR5300 dataset consists of 17,173 replays. (c) Training runs using
the same large dataset but with different training batch sizes. (d) The ﬁnal supervised training starting with a normal training stage and
followed by a ﬁne-tuning stage.
win rate against built-in elite bot exceeds 97% consistently.
5.3. Evaluation
Against built-in AIs
The supervised learning agent was
evaluated against built-in AIs of different difﬁculties, on
different ladder maps, and in Terran versus Terran, Protoss
and Zerg games. The results are shown in Table 1. The
built-in elite bot and the CheatInsane bot are used as the
opponents, which are the strongest built-in non-cheating
AI and the strongest built-in AI that cheats in vision and
resources, respectively. Results on three ladder maps, i.e.,
Triton, KairosJunction and Catalyst, are reported. Note
that our training data does not contain Catalyst, which is
a ladder map in earlier versions of StarCraft. From the
results, we can see that among the three opponent races,
the agent achieves the highest win rates in games of Terran
versus Terran. Among the three maps, the two seen during
training give higher win rates as expected, but surprisingly
the agent also plays relatively well on the unseen map Cat-
alyst, which exhibits the generalization capability of the
supervised model to different maps.
Comparison with human policy
To compare the policy
learned by supervised learning with that of humans, we let
the ﬁnal supervised agent play against itself on map Triton
for 400 games and calculated four indicative statistics of
playing strategies, i.e., number of command centers, number
of SCVs, number of barracks, and the percentage of Marine
unit in all trained units, for each of the games. Similarly,
we randomly picked 400 Terran versus Terran human re-
plays on the same map with MMR scores above 4300 and
calculated the same four statistics for each of the replays.
The distribution densities of the four statistics of both the
supervised agent and the humans are shown in Fig. 2. From
the ﬁgure, we can observe similar distribution shapes for
all statistics, e.g., most of the times three command centers
and ﬁve barracks are built for both the supervised agent and
humans, which indicate that the supervised agent indeed
plays a similar set of strategies to humans.

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
Table 1. Win rates (out of 100 matches) of the ﬁnal supervised model versus the built-in elite bot and the CheatInsane bot, on three
different maps: Triton, KairosJunction and Catalyst. Catalyst is an old map before 2018 season 2 not included in the dataset and thus not
seen during training. The elite bot is the strongest built-in non-cheating AI, and the CheatInsane bot is the strongest built-in AI that cheats
in vision and resources, i.e., having full vision on the whole map and resource harvest boosting.
TvT
TvP
TvZ
Map
Elite
CheatInsane
Elite
CheatInsane
Elite
CheatInsane
Triton
0.97
0.29
0.91
0.10
0.95
0.11
KairosJunction
0.94
0.38
0.90
0.21
0.93
0.23
Catalyst
0.90
0.19
0.87
0.08
0.91
0.09
1
2
3
4
5
6
Num of command centers
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
human mmr4300
supervised agent
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
Num of SCVs
0.000
0.005
0.010
0.015
0.020
0.025
0.030
0.035
0
2
4
6
8
Num of barracks
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Marine percentage
0
1
2
3
4
Figure 2. Comparison of some statistic distributions of human data and ﬁnal supervised agent.
6. Reinforcement Learning
SCC was trained in the setting of Terran versus Terran on a
single ladder map Triton at the reinforcement learning stage.
The ﬁnal supervised agent was used as the initialization
for reinforcement learning stage. In the following, we will
describe the training procedures that have been used during
the course of training. Detailed description of the training
platform is in Appendix B.
6.1. Learning Algorithm
Starting from the policy provided by the supervised training
stage, we apply the Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO)
(Schulman et al., 2017) to further improve the performance
of SCC based on agent versus agent games. To improve the
sampling and training efﬁciency, we modiﬁed the original
PPO to utilize the efﬁciency of asynchronous sampling and
large scale distributed training. In addition to the standard
PPO loss, we also added extra loss terms, i.e., a standard
entropy regularization loss, and a KL divergence loss with
respect to the ﬁnal supervised policy to prevent RL policy
deviating from humans (Vinyals et al., 2019b). Thus the
overall loss used in reinforcement training is as follows:
LRL = LP P O + Lentropy + LKL.
Rewards
We found the statistic z used in AlphaStar a very
useful approach to automate the training process and aid
in exploration and diversity throughout learning, therefore
we also adopted a similar approach. Besides the sparse
win/loss reward, there is a second type of reward based on
strategy statistic z. The strategy statistic z are extracted
from human replays which encode constructed buildings
and units present during a game. For the reinforcement
learning stage, we collected only the z from Terran versus

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
Terran replays on Triton map. At the start of each game,
we randomly sample a z, and at each following agent step,
the rewards are calculated as the distances between each
part of the sampled statistic z and the actually executed
statistic. It encourages the agent to follow different human
strategies, and thus help to preserve diversity. Separate value
functions and advantages are computed for each reward,
and the generalized advantage estimation (GAE) (Schulman
et al., 2015) is applied to balance the trade-off between the
bias and variance of the advantage estimation.
Shared policy and value network with warm-up
Al-
though the policy network is initialized with the supervised
model, the value network is missing. We observed that at
the beginning of reinforcement learning, the value output
is very noisy, resulting in noisy calculated advantage and
unstable training. To mitigate the problem, we freeze the
policy network and update only the value network at the
ﬁrst 50 training steps for warm up. In addition, the policy
and value networks share the same network architecture and
weights before the LSTM output. With the shared architec-
ture, the value network only needs to learn a mapping from
the encoded LSTM output to the predicted value, instead of
learning a whole mapping from the raw observations, which
may also ease the warm-up of the value network. Addi-
tionally, the shared architecture also reduces the number of
weights, i.e., the model size, so that we can use larger batch
size and accelerate the training, which is critical especially
when we have only limited memory and computational re-
sources.
6.2. Agent League
We found the general self-play approach insufﬁcient to ad-
dress the game theoretic challenge of StarCraft, and adopted
league training approach similar to AlphaStar, using a com-
bination of main agent, main exploiter and league exploiter.
Agent branching
During the league training progress of
SCC, we found that as the quality and quantity of agents
in the league increases, it takes longer to train an exploiter
starting from the supervised agent. After analyzing the
behavior of main agent with different statistic z speciﬁed,
we observed that the main agent can play partially according
to the speciﬁed z but not perfectly, likely due to the limited
data for a speciﬁc z, since there are hundreds of them. And
when playing against the unconditional main agent, different
z lead to different win rates range between 35% to 65%.
Based on these observations, we propose an approach
to train agents more efﬁciently with speciﬁed strategies.
Speciﬁcally, instead of initializing with the supervised agent
and training with sparse win/loss reward, we propose to ini-
tialize the new agent with the current main agent and train it
with not only the sparse win/loss reward, but also the dense
reward based on a speciﬁc z or a set of z. The speciﬁed
z could be the one with the highest win rate against the
unconditional main agent if we want to train an exploiter
quickly, or any speciﬁc strategy as needed. With this ap-
proach, the new agents branch off the main agent and move
toward different directions, thus we call the approach agent
branching.
In addition to reducing training time, we ﬁnd the agent
branching approach very helpful for agent robustness to
human strategies. For example, reaper rush is an early
aggressive strategy commonly used by human players and
it’s very effective if executed well. We ﬁnd it is really
difﬁcult for the exploiters to discover and execute similar
strategies very well if only sparse win/loss reward is used.
Using agent branching, exploiters can be guided during
learning to specialize in a strategy, resulting in a much
stronger exploiter. Thus the main agent learns to cope with
the reaper rush strategy very well, even when played against
human players.
Multiple main agents
With reduced computational re-
sources required for the exploiters, we explored the idea of
training multiple main agents. During the course of SCC
league training, three main agents were trained, each starting
at a different stage. Among them, two were initialized with
the supervised model, and one was trained using the agent
branching approach. With multiple main agents, we found
them play differently even for those two initialized with
the same supervised model. Agents initiated at different
stage of league training could evolve differently due to the
dynamics of league training. They provide more diversity
to the league, thus making the trained agents more robust.
6.3. Evaluation
Elo scores of the main agents
To examine the progres-
sion of the league training, we consider the rating metric Elo
score. Elo score determines the rating difference between
consecutive pairs of models based on the win rates between
them. The supervised agent was chosen as the baseline with
Elo score set to zero. The Elo score curves of the three main
agents over the course of league training are plotted in Fig.
3. Main agent 1 was the ﬁrst main agent, initialized with
the supervised model, and was trained longest for about 58
days. Main agent 2 was added into the league about 15 days
later than main agent 1, and was also initialized with the
supervised model. After being added into the league, Main
agent 2 played against all existing players in the league,
and caught up main agent 1 in Elo score within about 15
days. Main agent 3 was obtained using the agent branching
approach based on main agent 1, and was only trained for
about 15 days. The Elo scores of all three main agents in-
crease gradually during the course of training, and are above
1,500 at the end.

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Training days
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Elo score
main agent 1
main agent 2
main agent 3
Figure 3. Elo scores of three main agents during the 58 days of
training. Each point represents a past checkpoint of the main
agents. The Elo score of the ﬁnal supervised agent is set to 0 as
the baseline.
Generalization of the agent
The increasing Elo scores
exhibit the desired progression of agents, but those are ob-
served in the setting of Terran versus Terran games and on
map Triton, under which the agents are trained. It is well
known that agents trained by reinforcement learning are
prone to overﬁtting to the training environment. A natural
question is whether the ﬁnal agents can still play against
other races and on maps that are not seen during reinforce-
ment training. To answer this question, we perform eval-
uations against built-in AIs again similar to the evaluation
of the supervised agent. The evaluation results are shown
in Table 2. It shows that the ﬁnal reinforcement learning
agent not only can play against untrained races, on unseen
maps, but also with dramatically improved win rates. It’s an
indication that during the league training, the agent indeed
learns the essentials to play StarCraft II well in general,
instead of just memorizing and overﬁtting to the training
environment.
7. Human Evaluation
Human evaluation is the ﬁnal benchmark for StarCraft AI.
To evaluate SCC without access to ofﬁcial Battle.net, we
invited human players of different levels to play against
SCC. All SCC versus human matches are conducted in
Terran versus Terran games, on the ladder map Triton, and
using StarCraft II of version 4.10.0. During the matches,
SCC interacts with the StarCraft game engine directly via
its raw interface. In real-time evaluation, SCC reacts with a
delay between observation and action, due to two reasons.
First, after a frame is observed, SCC needs to process the
observation as a valid input for the policy network and then
perform a forward inference, which takes about 100ms on
average. Second, at each step, SCC decides when to observe
next with a delay between 2 to 128 game frames, i.e., 90ms
to 5.7 seconds, and is on average about 420ms. Due to the
delays, SCC is limited in the number of actions per minute
(APM), and in practice we found that the agent would not act
at the limit, probably because it learns from human replays.
During the course of reinforcement training, we observed
that the average APM of SCC gradually increased from 250
(with peak APM below 600) to around 400 (with peak APM
below 1000), which is comparable to top human players.
7.1. Test Matches
We evaluated the performance of SCC at different stages by
playing against human players of different levels, ranging
from Diamond to Grandmaster on the Korean server. During
the test matches, ﬁve games were played in total. Since SCC
has multiple main agents, a random one was picked for each
game. The results of the test matches are shown in Table 3.
In general, human players are extremely good and quick in
responding and adjusting strategies during multiple consec-
utive games, which imposes great challenges on robustness
of AI. During some of the games, we even intentionally
asked human players to play cheese strategies to exploit
the weaknesses of the agent, thanks to the diverse sets of
exploiters during the league training, SCC reacted really
well to those strategies and demonstrated strong robustness.
7.2. Live Matches
On June 21, 2020, we held a live match to challenge top
professional players of StarCraft II. TIME (Time) and TooD-
ming (TooDming) were invited to play against SCC in two
best of three (BO3) matches. Both of them are StarCraft II
professional champion winners. The ﬁnal versions of the
three main agents of SCC were used in the matches, with
estimated average Elo score above 1,500. As a result, SCC
won the two matches with two 2:0. Two narrated replays
can be viewed at https://youtu.be/yy8hc4CONyU.
During the ﬁrst match versus TIME, SCC adopted a strat-
egy with massive landed Vikings, which is seldom used by
human players. The strategy was also well received in Star-
Craft II community and some players have started adopting
the strategy in their own games.
Usually it’s expected that AI has an advantage in precise unit
control compared to human players. However according to
the feedback from TIME and TooDming, although there are
still rooms for improvement in terms of micromanagement
and units control, it’s really impressive that SCC learns to
optimize for long term economy and macro, with relentless
efforts in constant harassing and expansion, which is often
observed among the games of top professional players.

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
Table 2. Win rates (out of 100 matches) of the ﬁnal reinforcement agent versus the built-in elite bot and the CheatInsane bot, on three
different maps: Triton, KairosJunction and Catalyst. The agent is trained only on map Triton in the setting of TvT during reinforcement
learning.
TvT
TvP
TvZ
Map
Elite
CheatInsane
Elite
CheatInsane
Elite
CheatInsane
Triton
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
0.99
KairosJunction
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
1.0
0.96
Catalyst
1.0
0.99
1.0
1.0
1.0
0.96
Table 3. Test results of SCC when playing against human players from Diamond level to Grandmaster level.
Human player
SCC
Match result
ID
MMR score
Ladder tier
Training days
Avg estimated Elo score
SCC vs Human
1
3800
Diamond
23
765
5 : 0
2
5000
Master
30
905
4 : 1
3
5500
GrandMaster
39
1070
3 : 2
4
5200
GrandMaster
47
1240
5 : 0
8. Conclusion
We present StarCraft Commander (SCC), a deep reinforce-
ment learning agent for StarCraft II that demonstrates top
human performance defeating GrandMaster players in test
matches and top professional players in live matches. We
describe the key ideas and insights for imitation learning
and reinforcement learning. With optimized network archi-
tecture and training methods, we reduce the computation
needed by an order of magnitude compared to AlphaStar.
There are a lot of interesting observations from the experi-
ments. The ability to learn a good policy to play StarCraft
II full game from a very small dataset is truly surprising.
SCC also demonstrates unexpected generalization capability
for unseen maps and races during reinforcement learning.
Finally, the fact SCC is able to discover novel and long
term strategies that inspire the StarCraft game community
is very encouraging. We believe it’s a very promising area
of research to further optimize the balance of exploration
and exploitation of RL policies, for the emergence of more
novel strategies.
Even though the experiments are conducted on StarCraft
II, the approaches are generic to other tasks. Our goal is to
provide insights for the research community to explore large
scale deep reinforcement learning problems under resource
constraints. As demonstrated through our experiments, ex-
citing opportunities lie ahead in exploring sample efﬁciency,
exploration and generalization.

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
References
Berner, C., Brockman, G., Chan, B., Cheung, V., D˛ebiak, P.,
Dennison, C., Farhi, D., Fischer, Q., Hashme, S., Hesse,
C., et al. Dota 2 with large scale deep reinforcement
learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.06680, 2019.
Blizzard. StarCraft II client - protocol deﬁnitions used to
communicate with StarCraft II. https://github.c
om/Blizzard/s2client-proto. (Accessed on
01/31/2021).
Churchill, D. and Buro, M. Portfolio greedy search and
simulation for large-scale combat in starcraft. In 2013
IEEE Conference on Computational Inteligence in Games
(CIG), pp. 1–8. IEEE, 2013.
Churchill, D., Lin, Z., and Synnaeve, G. An analysis of
model-based heuristic search techniques for starcraft com-
bat scenarios. In AIIDE Workshops, 2017.
Deepmind.
PySC2: StarCraft II learning environment.
https://github.com/deepmind/pysc2. (Ac-
cessed on 01/31/2021).
Foerster, J., Farquhar, G., Afouras, T., Nardelli, N., and
Whiteson, S. Counterfactual multi-agent policy gradients.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.08926, 2017.
Han, L., Xiong, J., Sun, P., Sun, X., Fang, M., Guo, Q.,
Chen, Q., Shi, T., Yu, H., and Zhang, Z. Tstarbot-x:
An open-sourced and comprehensive study for efﬁcient
league training in StarCraft II full game. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2011.13729, 2020.
Ilse, M., Tomczak, J., and Welling, M. Attention-based deep
multiple instance learning. In International Conference
on Machine Learning, pp. 2127–2136, 2018.
Lee, D., Tang, H., Zhang, J. O., Xu, H., Darrell, T., and
Abbeel, P. Modular architecture for starcraft ii with deep
reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.03555,
2018.
Luong, M.-T., Pham, H., and Manning, C. D. Effective ap-
proaches to attention-based neural machine translation. In
Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Meth-
ods in Natural Language Processing, pp. 1412–1421,
2015.
Mnih, V., Kavukcuoglu, K., Silver, D., Graves, A.,
Antonoglou, I., Wierstra, D., and Riedmiller, M. Playing
atari with deep reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1312.5602, 2013.
Ontanón, S., Synnaeve, G., Uriarte, A., Richoux, F.,
Churchill, D., and Preuss, M. A survey of real-time
strategy game ai research and competition in starcraft.
IEEE Transactions on Computational Intelligence and AI
in games, 5(4):293–311, 2013.
Pang, Z.-J., Liu, R.-Z., Meng, Z.-Y., Zhang, Y., Yu, Y., and
Lu, T. On reinforcement learning for full-length game
of starcraft. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artiﬁcial Intelligence, volume 33, pp. 4691–4698, 2019.
Peng, P., Wen, Y., Yang, Y., Yuan, Q., Tang, Z., Long,
H., and Wang, J. Multiagent bidirectionally-coordinated
nets: Emergence of human-level coordination in learn-
ing to play starcraft combat games.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1703.10069, 2017.
Schulman, J., Moritz, P., Levine, S., Jordan, M., and Abbeel,
P. High-dimensional continuous control using generalized
advantage estimation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1506.02438,
2015.
Schulman, J., Wolski, F., Dhariwal, P., Radford, A., and
Klimov, O. Proximal policy optimization algorithms.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347, 2017.
Silver, D., Huang, A., Maddison, C. J., Guez, A., Sifre, L.,
van den Driessche, G., Schrittwieser, J., Antonoglou, I.,
Panneershelvam, V., Lanctot, M., Dieleman, S., Grewe,
D., Nham, J., Kalchbrenner, N., Sutskever, I., Lillicrap, T.,
Leach, M., Kavukcuoglu, K., Graepel, T., and Hassabis,
D. Mastering the game of go with deep neural networks
and tree search. Nature, 529:484–503, 2016. URL http:
//www.nature.com/nature/journal/v529
/n7587/full/nature16961.html.
Sun, P., Sun, X., Han, L., Xiong, J., Wang, Q., Li, B., Zheng,
Y., Liu, J., Liu, Y., Liu, H., et al. Tstarbots: Defeating the
cheating level builtin ai in Starcraft II in the full game.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.07193, 2018.
Time. TIME - Liquipedia - The StarCraft II Encyclopedia.
https://liquipedia.net/starcraft2/TI
ME. (Accessed on 01/31/2021).
TooDming. TooDming - Liquipedia - The StarCraft II Ency-
clopedia. https://liquipedia.net/starcra
ft2/TooDming. (Accessed on 01/31/2021).
Usunier, N., Synnaeve, G., Lin, Z., and Chintala, S. Episodic
exploration for deep deterministic policies: An applica-
tion to starcraft micromanagement tasks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1609.02993, 2016.
Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones,
L., Gomez, A. N., Kaiser, Ł., and Polosukhin, I. Atten-
tion is all you need. In Advances in neural information
processing systems, pp. 5998–6008, 2017.
Vinyals, O., Ewalds, T., Bartunov, S., Georgiev, P., Vezhn-
evets, A. S., Yeo, M., Makhzani, A., Küttler, H., Agapiou,
J., Schrittwieser, J., et al. Starcraft ii: A new challenge for
reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1708.04782,
2017.

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
Vinyals, O., Babuschkin, I., Chung, J., Mathieu, M.,
Jaderberg, M., Czarnecki, W., Dudzik, A., Huang, A.,
Georgiev, P., Powell, R., Ewalds, T., Horgan, D., Kroiss,
M., Danihelka, I., Agapiou, J., Oh, J., Dalibard, V.,
Choi, D., Sifre, L., Sulsky, Y., Vezhnevets, S., Molloy,
J., Cai, T., Budden, D., Paine, T., Gulcehre, C., Wang,
Z., Pfaff, T., Pohlen, T., Yogatama, D., Cohen, J., McK-
inney, K., Smith, O., Schaul, T., Lillicrap, T., Apps, C.,
Kavukcuoglu, K., Hassabis, D., and Silver, D. AlphaS-
tar: Mastering the Real-Time Strategy Game StarCraft
II. https://deepmind.com/blog/alphasta
r-mastering-real-time-strategy-game-
starcraft-ii/, 2019a.
Vinyals, O., Babuschkin, I., Czarnecki, W. M., Mathieu, M.,
Dudzik, A., Chung, J., Choi, D. H., Powell, R., Ewalds,
T., Georgiev, P., et al. Grandmaster level in starcraft ii
using multi-agent reinforcement learning. Nature, 575
(7782):350–354, 2019b.
Weber, B. Aiide 2010 starcraft competition. In Sixth Arti-
ﬁcial Intelligence and Interactive Digital Entertainment
Conference, 2010.
Zambaldi, V., Raposo, D., Santoro, A., Bapst, V., Li, Y.,
Babuschkin, I., Tuyls, K., Reichert, D., Lillicrap, T.,
Lockhart, E., et al. Relational deep reinforcement learn-
ing. arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.01830, 2018.

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
A. Network Architecture
With the complex observation and action structures, the
design of the policy network architecture is critical, in order
to extract the right information from the raw observation
and issue the proper action. The overall architecture of
the policy network of SCC is shown in Fig. 4, which was
designed based on the performance in supervised learning.
With the same input and output interfaces provided by the
game engine, the overall policy structure of SCC is similar
to that of AlphaStar, while there are some key components
that are different, which will be discussed in detail below.
A.1. Minimap Size
As part of the observation, the minimap consists of 6 planes
of spatial information, i.e., height, visibility, player relative,
alerts, pathable and buildable, which is directly provided by
the raw interface and its size can be speciﬁed. AlphaStar
uses minimaps of size 128 × 128, as it is the only part of
spatial input, it also consists most of the data size. We reduce
the minimap size from 128×128 to 64×64, which reduces
the per sample data size by around 49.5%. We compared
the overall performance of the two settings in supervised
learning, and observed that the two different minimap sizes
lead to almost identical training and evaluation results. As a
result, we ﬁnally adopt minimap of size 64×64, for smaller
storage and higher computational efﬁciency.
A.2. Group Transformer
Among all parts of the observations, the set of units is most
informative, with each one consists of the unit type, owner,
position and many other ﬁelds. The whole set of units can be
divided into three groups, namely my units, enemy units and
neutral units. In AlphaStar, all three groups of units are put
together and is then processed by transformer. In our point
of view, the three groups of units are naturally separate and
processing them separately allows a more comprehensive
expression. It will also facilitate the processing later, for
example, the selected units head can only select units from
my units.
For each group of units, one multi-head self attention block
is applied with the unit feature vectors in the same group
as the queries, keys and values, and two multi-head cross
attention block are applied with the queries being the unit
feature vectors in the same group and that of the other two
unit groups being the keys and values (Vaswani et al., 2017).
For each of the multi-head attention blocks, there are two
heads each of size 32, and the outputs of the three multi-
head attention blocks are concatenated together. The whole
process is repeated three times to yield the ﬁnal encoded
unit features for the three groups of units, which will act as
the attention keys being used in the selected units and the
target unit heads, and also be reduced into a single vector
being fed into the LSTM.
A.3. Attention-based Pooling
To reduce the extracted unit feature vectors of each group
into a single vector, a simple average-pooling is applied in
AlphaStar. In a similar scenario, the max-pooling is utilized
in OpenAI ﬁve. Both operators are non-trainable which
potentially limits their expressive capability. Inspired by the
attention-based multiple instance learning (Ilse et al., 2018),
we propose the trainable attention-based pooling based on
the multi-head attention. More speciﬁcally, the extracted
unit feature vectors are treated as the keys and values in a
multi-head attention, and multiple trainable weight vectors
are created as the queries. The outputs of the multi-head
attention are then ﬂattened to yield the reduced vector, with
the dimension being deﬁned by the number of query weight
vectors, and also the number of head and head size of the
multi-head attention. It is observed that this trainable reduce
operator gives better performance in supervised learning.
A.4. Conditional Structures
With the observations encoded into vector representations,
concatenated and processed by a residual LSTM block, the
action is then decided based on the LSTM output. To man-
age the structured, combinatorial action space, AlphaStar
uses an auto-regressive action structure in which each sub-
sequent action head conditions on all previous ones, via an
additive auto-regressive embedding going through all heads.
During the design of SCC, we found that it is critical for all
other heads to condition on the selected action, which de-
ﬁnes what to do, for example, moving, attacking, or training
a unit, and for the two heads that decide the target unit or
position, it is also helpful to condition on the selected units.
However, for all other heads, it is not necessary to condition
on each other, thus the order of these heads, say the skip
frames and queued heads, also does not matter. In addition,
in view of the limited expressive capability of the additive
operator, we adopt the structure of concatenation followed
by a fully connected layer, to provide full ﬂexibility for the
network to learn a better conditional relationship.
Due to the importance of the selected action for some action
heads, we propose to condition on it further via the condi-
tioned concat-attention. To be speciﬁc, the concat-attention
is applied in the target unit head to output the probability
distribution from which the target unit is sampled. In the
original concat-attention (Luong et al., 2015), the attention
score is computed as follows:
score(q, ui) = vT tanh(W[q; ui]),
where q is the query, ui is the encoded unit feature vector
serving as the key, W and v are the weights to be trained.

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
In the proposed conditioned concat-attention, we replace
the single weight vector v by the embedding of the sampled
selected action. Since there are different embeddings for
different selected actions, the conditioned concat-attention
provides the capability of deﬁning different function map-
pings for different selected actions. It makes sense intu-
itively, since different selected actions may need totally
different criteria for selecting the target, for example, the
repair action may want to target damaged alliance units and
the attack action may want to target nearby enemy units.
The same conditioned concat-attention is also applied inside
the pointer network in the selected units head, in place of
the original simple dot product attention, to also further
condition on the selected action.
B. Training Platform
We developed a highly scalable training system based on
the actor-learner architecture. The diagram of the training
process for one agent is shown in Fig. 5. In our system,
there are a number of Samplers, each of which continuously
runs a single SC2 environment and collects training data.
When a rollout of training data is generated, it will be sent
to a Trainer over the network and saved into a local buffer.
When there are sufﬁcient training data in the local buffer,
Trainer starts to execute a training step, during which it
repeatedly samples a batch of training data, computes the
gradient, and executes MPI all-reduce operation. When the
training data has been utilized some number of times, this
training step is terminated and the local buffer is cleared.
After that, Trainers distribute updated network parameters
to Predictors through network. Predictor provides batched
inference service on GPU for Samplers to make efﬁcient use
of resource. For each agent, we run about 1000 (AlphaStar
16,000) concurrent SC2 matches, and can collect a sample
batch of total size 144,000 and perform a training step in
about 180 seconds. So about 800 (AlphaStar 50,000) agent
steps can be processed per second on average.
To support the whole league training, we also build a league
system as shown in Fig. 6, which consists of four compo-
nents, i.e., Storage, Predictor, Scheduler and Evaluator. We
introduce each component in the following.
• Storage: we use a MySQL DB service to store league
information, like agent-id, agent-type, model-path and
so on. The evaluation results of win rates between
agents are also saved into the storage.
• Predictor: we use a single cluster of Predictors to pro-
vide inference service for all agents in the league, and
the cluster is shared by training agents. Not only GPUs,
CPUs are also used as Predictors.
• Scheduler: Scheduler maintains the predictors and pro-
vides naming service, which receives agent-id and re-
turns an available Predictor (allocate one if not exists).
As the number of agents in league keeps growing, there
is no guarantee for each agent with at least one GPU
Predictor, in that case the CPU Predictors are used
instead. The distribution of requests over agents also
changes in the training process, Scheduler is also re-
sponsible to auto scale the Predictor number for agents
according to the request amount.
• Evaluator: an Evaluator is needed to get the win rates
between agents in league. The evaluation results are
saved into Storage and will be used to calculate the
matchmaking distribution.

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
Scalar features:
 
minenals
vespene
food_used
food_army
food_workers
army_count
...
Residual 
LSTM
FC
Selected Action
Softmax
Selected Units
Pointer 
Network
Concat
Concat
Softmax
Target Position
Concat
Softmax
Target Unit
 
...
Minimap features:
 
height_map
visibility_map
player_relative
alerts
pathable
buildable
ResNet
Concat
FC-Relu
Unit Maps:
 
Encoded unit feature vectors 
are scattered into maps of 
the same size as the minimap, 
with the unit positions as the 
locations and the features 
across the channels.
Reshape
Embedding
Selected 
Action
Embedding
Selected 
Action
Embedding
Selected 
Action
FC
Flatten
Enemy Unit N
...
Enemy Unit 1
FC
Unit Type
Embedding
Position
Other 
Features
Concat
Concat
Attention 
Pooling
Attention 
Keys
Multi-Head 
Self 
Attention
Multi-Head 
Cross 
Attention
My Unit N
...
My Unit 1
FC
Unit Type
Embedding
Position
Other 
Features
Concat
Neutral Unit N
...
Neutral Unit 1
FC
Unit Type
Embedding
Position
Other 
Features
Concat
Multi-Head 
Cross 
Attention
Multi-Head 
Cross 
Attention
Multi-Head 
Self 
Attention
Multi-Head 
Cross 
Attention
Multi-Head 
Cross 
Attention
Multi-Head 
Cross 
Attention
Multi-Head 
Self 
Attention
Concat
Attention 
Pooling
Attention 
Keys
Concat
Attention 
Pooling
Attention 
Keys
Concat
FC
Skip Frames
Softmax
FC
Queued
Sigmoid
Concat
Conditioned
Concat-Attention
Sample
Sample
Sample
Sample
FC
FC
FC-Relu
FC-Relu
CNN 1*1
Sample
Selected 
Units
Selected 
Units
[Mean, Max]
[Mean, Max]
3 x
FC
Concat
ResNet
with FiLM 
Deconv
Embedding
Selected 
Action
Embedding
Selected 
Action
Concat
Concat
Sample
Figure 4. Overview of the policy network architecture of SCC.

SCC: an Efﬁcient Deep RL Agent Mastering the Game of StarCraft II
Env
Sampler
Trainer
Action
Sample Batch
Observation
Predictor
Network Parameters
Observation
Action
Master
1 Collect Training Data
1 Collect Training data done
2 Train a step
2 Train a step done
3 Update Weights
3 Update Weights done
Figure 5. Diagram of the training process.
Evaluator
Evaluation Results
Storage
Predictor
Scheduler
Agent Info
1.
Allocate
2.
Auto Scale
Master
Sampler
Agent Info
Matchmaking
Opponent Agent ID
Opponent Predictor
Observation
Action
Agent
Sampler
Figure 6. Diagram of the league training.
