2021-4-14
Podracer architectures for scalable
Reinforcement Learning
Matteo Hessel*,1, Manuel Kroiss*,1,
Aidan Clark1, Iurii Kemaev1, John Quan1, Thomas Keck1, Fabio Viola1 and Hado van Hasselt*,1
*Equal contributions, 1DeepMind
Supporting state-of-the-art AI research requires balancing rapid prototyping, ease of use, and quick iter-
ation, with the ability to deploy experiments at a scale traditionally associated with production systems.
Deep learning frameworks such as TensorFlow, PyTorch and JAX allow users to transparently make use
of accelerators, such as TPUs and GPUs, to oﬄoad the more computationally intensive parts of training
and inference in modern deep learning systems. Popular training pipelines that use these frameworks
for deep learning typically focus on (un-)supervised learning. How to best train reinforcement learning
(RL) agents at scale is still an active research area. In this report we argue that TPUs are particularly
well suited for training RL agents in a scalable, eﬃcient and reproducible way. Speciﬁcally we describe
two architectures designed to make the best use of the resources available on a TPU Pod (a special
conﬁguration in a Google data center that features multiple TPU devices connected to each other by
extremely low latency communication channels).
Introduction
Reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms have been shown to be capable of performing well on
challenging sequential decision problems, ranging from board games (Silver et al., 2016) to video
games (Mnih et al., 2015) and continuous control (Lillicrap et al., 2016; Van Hasselt, 2012). Many of
these advances were powered by the adoption of deep learning (Krizhevsky et al., 2012) in RL.
As in other areas of machine learning, however, the adoption of deep learning comes at non-trivial
computational cost. Indeed a steady increase can be observed in the workloads associated to popular
RL agents (Hessel et al., 2018; Mnih et al., 2015, 2016). This has been driven by two factors: 1) an
increase in the number of steps of environment interactions required by agents, due to the tackling of
increasingly hard problems, 2) an increase in the amount of compute required, on each step, due to
the agent’s policy (and other predictions) being parameterized by larger deep neural networks.
This has motivated extensive research on scalable research platforms for (deep) RL (Espeholt et al.,
2018, 2020; Horgan et al., 2018; Liang et al., 2018; Nair et al., 2015; Petrov et al., 2018; Stooke and
Abbeel, 2018). Any such platform must balance enabling easy and rapid prototyping (an essential
requirement for research) and optimising execution speed (critical for platforms managing workloads
that, until recently, were reserved to production systems rather than research experiments).
In this report, we argue that the compute requirements of large scale reinforcement learning
systems are particularly well suited for making use of Cloud TPUs (Jouppi et al., 2017), and specif-
ically TPU Pods: special conﬁgurations in a Google data center that feature multiple TPU devices
interconnected by low latency communication channels. We collectively call Podracers the research
platforms that we have built to support scalable RL research on TPU Pods, and we describe two such
architectures, Anakin and Sebulba, designed to train online agents and decomposed actor-learner
agents, respectively. Both have been used in recent deep RL publications (Oh et al., 2021; Xu et al.,
2020; Zahavy et al., 2020), and are here presented in full detail for the ﬁrst time. Both build upon
JAX (Bradbury et al., 2018), to distribute computation and make eﬀective use of TPUs.
© 2021 DeepMind. All rights reserved
arXiv:2104.06272v1  [cs.LG]  13 Apr 2021

Podracer architectures for scalable Reinforcement Learning
Background
In this section we provide context to understand the systems we describe in the subsequent section.
Reinforcement Learning
Reinforcement learning is a formalism for sequential decision making under uncertainty (Sutton and
Barto, 2018). Consider a learning system (the agent) tasked with learning to act in the world it is
embedded in (the environment), in order to maximise the total cumulative rewards collected while
interacting with such an environment. The interaction between agent and environment takes place
over a discrete loop: at each step, the environment provides the agent with a (partial) snapshot of its
state (an observation) together with a scalar feedback (the reward), and the agent responds by picking
an action to execute in the environment. For instance, the learning system may be tasked to learn
chess (Silver et al., 2017): the agent then selects the moves for one of the players; its environment
includes the chess board and the opponent; observations encode the state of the board; rewards are
0 everywhere, except on check-mate, where the agent receives +1 for winning or −1 for losing.
There are several critical diﬀerences between RL and other ML paradigms such as supervised
learning (Bishop, 2006; Murphy, 2012). 1) The data distribution observed by the agent depends
on the agent’s actions; this means that data is inherently sequential and non-stationary. 3) It is up
to the agent to trade oﬀthe exploitation of existing knowledge versus the exploration of alternative
courses of actions that may appear sub-optimal now, but that might allow the agent to learn even
better behaviours. 3) The agent is not told, on each step, what the right action is; rewards give an
evaluation of how well the agent is performing, but do not indicate what better sequence of actions
could have been taken instead. 4) the feedback may be stochastic and delayed; it is up to the agent
to correctly assign credit (Minsky, 1961) for past actions to rewards observed at a later time.
A brief overview of JAX
JAX (Bradbury et al., 2018) is a numerical computing library for machine learning (ML) in Python.
Its API for writing numerical functions follows NumPy (Harris et al., 2020) closely, but augments it
with a ﬂexible system for composable program transformation (Ward, 1989), that supports automatic
diﬀerentiation (Nolan, 1953), SIMD-programming (Flynn, 1972), just-in-time compilation (McCarthy,
1960), and hardware acceleration via GPUs (Barron and Glorioso, 1973) or TPUs (Jouppi et al., 2017).
Automatic diﬀerentiation is critical to modern ML due to the widespread use of gradient descent
(Cauchy, 1847). JAX supports both forward mode (Wengert, 1964) and reverse mode (Speelpenning,
1980) diﬀerentiation via the program transformations grad, hessian, jacfwd and jacrev that
take a numerical function and return a new function computing the derivative of the original one.
SIMD programming is popular in ML, as it is common to apply the same function (e.g. a loss) to a
batch of data (e.g. a collection of images and labels). JAX supports SIMD programming via vmap and
pmap. The ﬁrst implements automatic vectorization: given a numerical function, vmap returns a new
function that expects inputs with an additional (batch) dimension; this avoids having to manually
vectorize your code. Through pmap, JAX also supports large scale data parallelism (Dean et al., 2012),
where shards of the same computation can distributed across multiple accelerators or host machines.
Just-in-time (JIT) compilation is the compilation of code at run time, rather than prior to execution.
The jit primitive in JAX uses XLA (team, 2017) to JIT-compile numerical programs. JIT compilation
provides substantial speed-ups, and bypasses Python’s “global interpreter lock” (GIL) (Beazley, 2009).
Hardware acceleration is achieved in JAX by JIT-compiling code, via XLA, for execution on diﬀerent
hardware (e.g. GPU, TPU). The user only needs to specify on which device to run each computation.
2

Podracer architectures for scalable Reinforcement Learning
Core 1
Core 2
Core 4
Core 3
Core 5
Core 8
Core 6
Core 7
56 
Cores
Chip 1
Chip 2
Chip 3
Chip 4
TPU
CPU
a)
TPU
Chip 1
Chip 2
Chip 3
Chip 4
CPU
b)
TPU
Chip 1
Chip 2
Chip 3
Chip 4
CPU
c)
Figure 1 | a) A graphical depiction of a TPU. One CPU host is connected to 8 TPU cores (grouped into 4
chips). All TPU cores are connected to each other via high speed network. b) In Anakin: environment
(in green), action selection (in yellow) and learning (in pink) are all executed on the accelerators, and
the computation is replicated across all available cores. c) In Sebulba: the environment computation
(in green) happens on the CPU host, the computation associated to action selection (in yellow) and
parameter updates (in pink) is distributed across disjoint subsets of the available TPU cores.
Tensor Processing Units
Tensor Processing Units (TPUs) are custom accelerator chips developed by Google to handle machine
learning workloads, i.e. workloads associated with big matrix multiplications and batch operations. A
TPU pod is a collection of TPU cores that are connected to each other via a high-speed network. Each
TPU core (also referred to as a device) has access to dedicated high-bandwidth memory (HBM) and
can perform computations independently of other cores. TPU cores are managed by CPU machines
(henceforth hosts) which schedule computations and move data to and from device. On TPUv2
or TPUv3 machines, each host manages 8 TPU cores. A graphical depiction of the host and the 8
associated TPU cores is shown in Figure 1a.
To run computations on a TPU device, JAX programs must be compiled by XLA on the CPU host,
and then loaded onto the TPU device. The computation inputs are transferred from host memory
to device memory and the computation program is executed using the device inputs. This produces
outputs on the device memory, which can be transferred back to the host when appropriate. There
can only be one program running at a time per TPU device. Some computations require the output of
the last execution as input to the next execution, in which case the memory may be kept on the device
and needless transfers via the host are avoided. Memory on TPU is automatically garbage collected
when no Python reference to the corresponding data on the TPU is left.
It is common for data processed on one device to later be needed on a diﬀerent device. In this
case, the data may be transferred directly from a device to another, bypassing the host. Whenever
possible, this kind of device to device communication is preferred over host to device communication,
since the network transfer speed from a TPU core to another is signiﬁcantly faster than from CPU to
TPU. JAX also oﬀers collective operations (such as psum, to combine tensors and other numerical data
across one or more devices). These collective operations are also performed by automatically sending
the relevant data directly from a device to another, without requiring any transfer back to the host.
3

Podracer architectures for scalable Reinforcement Learning
Two Reinforcement Learning Frameworks
We now describe two frameworks for eﬃcient use of TPUs for reinforcement learning research at scale,
called Anakin and Sebulba. The Anakin framework supports environments that are themselves
written in Jax, and hence can run eﬃciently on the TPU devices. The Sebulba framework supports
arbitrary environments (such as Atari video games) that run on the CPU hosts.
Online Learning with Anakin
Our ﬁrst Podracer architecture is Anakin, an online learning system where the environment runs on
the TPU alongside the agent. This setup requires the environments themselves to be implemented as
JAX (pure) functions, in order for these to be compiled by XLA for execution on the TPU.
Each environment is deﬁned by an initial_state function to initialize such state and by a
step function which maps a state and action to a new state and reward. The state must be handled
explicitly for the environment stepping to be a pure function. All the environments must be written
in JAX; this restricts the range of environments supported, but provides large beneﬁts in terms of
performance and cleanliness of the research platform.
For instance, we found that writing agents in this setup is straight forward. There is no need for
the actor/learner separation that is so popular in large scale deep RL platforms (Espeholt et al., 2018,
2020; Horgan et al., 2018). Instead, the agent environment interaction loop maps more directly onto
the math or pseudo-code you would ﬁnd in an RL textbook.
The minimal unit of computation in Anakin is depicted on the top of Figure 2: the environment is
stepped as part of the forward computation of a suitable RL objective, and the objective can then be
diﬀerentiated all the way through multiple agent-environment interaction to update the parameters.
The parameter update computation (in pink) can reuse the forward pass of any neural network used
by the agent’s policy (in yellow), as they are part of the same XLA program.
Scaling this up is very easy using JAX. The minimal unit of computation described above is ﬁrst
vmapped to vectorise the computation across a batch large enough to ensure good utilisation of an
entire TPU core, then the vectorized function is distributed across the 8 cores of a TPU, by using the
pmap primitive to replicate the program across all cores.
Figure 1b graphically depicts this: each TPU core includes the computation associated with the
environment (in green), action selection (in yellow) and the parameter update (in pink). JAX’s
collective operations (e.g. psum/pmean) can be used in the update function to ensure that parameter
updates are averaged across all participating cores. The CPU host is exclusively used to schedule the
computation of this large JAX program but is otherwise unused. We provide a minimal open source
demonstration of how Anakin can be implemented in this Colab.
The architecture is highly eﬃcient as the agent-environment interaction can be compiled into a
single XLA program, allowing the compiler to fuse operations and optimise computation. Furthermore,
there are no host to device transfers, as the environment itself lives on the TPU, and there is no
overhead from Python, as there is no latency-critical work outside of XLA. This means each TPU core
is always fully utilized.
The design is also scalable, as it is possible to replicate the basic setup, and therefore use larger
TPU slices (potentially, all the 2048 cores of a TPU Pod), with the change of one conﬁguration setting.
Finally, Anakin experiments are self contained and deterministic. Overall, these feature makes this
Podracer architecture very ﬂexible, as it can be used for debugging research ideas at a small scale, as
well as for running reliable and reproducible experiments at a massive scale.
4

Podracer architectures for scalable Reinforcement Learning
A
Policy
Policy
Env
Env
Input:
State
Policy
O, R
O, R
A
Forward
Backward
Output:
Update
Objective
def step_and_update_fn(...):
  # 1) step the agent and environment N times
  # 2) compute the loss or other RL objective
  # 3) derive a gradient update by differentiating back through the entire loop (if needed)
batched_fn = jax.vmap(step_and_update)  # batch to utilize an entire TPU core
iterated_fn = jax.lax.fori_loop(batched_fn)  # iterate many times to avoid going back to Python
replicated_fn = jax.pmap(iterated_fn)  # replicate computation across all available TPU cores
Env
O, R
Figure 2 | Top: The minimal unit of computation in Anakin: a sequence of interactions between one
agent and one environment, followed by the calculation of a parameter update (typically optimising
for a suitable RL objective – e.g. a loss). The computation of the update can reuse the computation of
the policy, as they are all part of a single JAX function. Bottom: Pseudo-code showing how to scale
up such JAX programs through vectorisation and replication across many cores.
TPU 
Batched Env
Policy
Trajectory
step the entire batch of 
environments in parallel in C++
A actor devices
Objective
Update
L learner devices
CPU 
split batch among learner devices 
average gradients (*) across learner devices, 
then send updated params to actor devices
This entire computation is replicated across S slices of a TPU Pod, 
in which case gradients in (*) are averaged across all learner devices of all slices
batch of actions
batch of 
observations and
rewards
B batched envs
Figure 3 | The minimal unit of computation in Sebulba: the 8 TPU cores attached to a CPU host are split
between 𝐴actor cores and 𝐿= 8−𝐴learner cores. Actor cores process batches of observations to select
actions. Trajectories are accumulated on each actor and then split among all learners, gradient updates
are averaged across participating learner cores before updating parameters. Updated parameters are
sent directly to the actor devices. The entire computation may be replicated across multiple TPUs.
5

Podracer architectures for scalable Reinforcement Learning
Decomposed Actors and Learners with Sebulba
Our second architecture, Sebulba, relaxes Anakin’s assumption that environments can be compiled to
run on TPU. Instead, it supports arbitrary environments, and relies on an actor-learner decomposition
(Espeholt et al., 2018) for performance. In decomposed architectures, several actors interact with
parallel copies of an environment; the experience they generate is fed to a learner through a queue.
As in Anakin, Sebulba co-locates acting and learning on a single TPU machine. However, it steps
the environments on the host CPU, and splits the available 8 TPU cores (for each host) in two disjoint
sets: 𝐴cores are used exclusively to act, and the remaining 8 −𝐴cores are used to learn. Figure 1c
graphically depicts how the computation is distributed across the available hardware: the environment
(in green) is executed on the CPU host, the action selection (in yellow) and the parameter update
computation (in pink) are assigned to distinct TPU cores. The optimal split between actor and learner
cores depends on the nature of the agent being trained. For simple model-free agents we often ﬁnd it
convenient to have 3x as many learner cores as actor cores (since the backward pass is slower than
the forward pass). For other agent designs, e.g. if an agent uses search, the optimal split may diﬀer.
To generate experience, we use (at least) one separate Python thread for each actor core. Each
Python thread then steps an entire batch of environments in parallel and feeds the resulting batch
of observations to a TPU core, to perform inference in batch and select the next batch of actions.
To minimise the eﬀect of Python’s GIL, when stepping a batch of environments in parallel, each
Python actor-thread interacts with a special batched environment; this is exposed to Python as a
single environment that takes a batch of actions and returns a batch of observations; behind the
scenes it steps each environment in the batch in parallel using a shared pool of C++ threads. To
make eﬃcient use of the actor cores, it is essential that while a Python thread is stepping a batch of
environments, the corresponding TPU core is not idle. This is achieved by creating multiple Python
threads per actor core, each with its own batched environment. They threads alternate in using the
same actor core, without manual synchronization.
To learn from this experience, each actor thread accumulates a batch of trajectories of ﬁxed length
on device, splits the batch of trajectories along the batch dimension, sends each shard directly to
one of the learners through the fast device-to-device communication channel, and places the Python
reference to this tensor data onto a Python queue. A single learner thread on host then takes the
handle to the data (already sharded across the appropriate learner cores), and executes the same
update function on all the TPU cores dedicated to learning (via JAX’s pmap primitive). Each learner
core will then apply the same update function to its own shard of the experience, and parameter
updates can averaged (by using JAX’s pmean/psum primitives) across all participating learner cores.
As for the transfer of trajectories from actor cores to learner cores, the collective operations also
exploit the fast device-to-device transfer to avoid transferring parameters back and forth between
the host and TPU. If the gradients are averaged before each update, the parameters on the diﬀerent
learner cores remain in sync throughout training without requiring additional transfers. The actor
devices receive the new parameters in a timely manner as the learner thread sends them to the actor
cores after each update. The Python actor threads can then switch to using the latest parameters
before each new inference step.
This minimal unit of computation in Sebulba is graphically depicted in Figure 3, including the ﬂow
of information between the various components. Similar to Anakin, this computation can be scaled
up via replication. For every additional replica we gain a separate host CPU (that independently steps
its own batched environments and uses the associated actor cores for inference). The learner cores in
each replica process only trajectories generated on the corresponding host, but parameter updates
will be averaged using JAX’s collective operations across all learner cores from all replicas.
6

Podracer architectures for scalable Reinforcement Learning
16
32
64
128
Number of TPU Cores
(a)
  7e6
  15e6
  30e6
  60e6
Frames per Second
32
64
128
Actor batch size 
(b)
200e3
135e3
90e3
60e3
Frames per Second (V-trace)
16
32
64
128
Number of TPU Cores
(c)
 5e3
 10e3
 20e3
 40e3
Frames per Second (MuZero)
Figure 4 | a) FPS for Anakin, as a function of the number of TPU cores, ranging from 16 (i.e. 2 replicas)
to 128 (i.e.16 replicas). b) FPS for a Sebulba implementation of IMPALA’s V-trace algorithm, as a
function of the actor batch size, from 32 (as in IMPALA) to 128. c) FPS for a Sebulba implementation
of MuZero, as a function of the number of TPU cores, from 16 (i.e. 2 replicas) to 128 (i.e. 16 replicas).
Example use cases and performance
In this section we discuss some concrete use cases, to highlight the expected performance (and cost)
of using the Anakin and Sebulba architectures in settings that are relevant to today’s research.
Anakin:
When using small neural networks and grid-world environments an Anakin architecture can easily
perform 5 million steps per second, even on the 8-core TPU accessible for free 1 through Google Colab.
This can be very useful to experiment and debug research ideas in the friendly Colab environment.
In Figure 4a we show how, thanks to the eﬃcient network connecting diﬀerent TPU cores in a
Pod, performance scales almost linearly with the number of cores; the collective operations used to
average gradients across replicas appear to cause only minimal overhead.
In a recent paper by Oh et al. (2021) Anakin was used, at a much larger scale, to discover a
general reinforcement learning update, from experience of interacting with a rich set of environments
implemented in JAX. In this paper, Anakin was used to learn a single shared update rule from 60𝐾
JAX environments and 1𝐾policies running and training in parallel.
Despite the complex nature of the system, based on the use of neural networks to meta-learn
not just a policy but the entire RL update, Anakin delivered over 3 million steps per second on a
16-core TPU. Training the update rule to a good level of performance, required running Anakin for
approximately 24 hours; this would cost approximately 100 dollars on GCP’s preemptible instances 2.
This use case also demonstrated a potential synergy between Anakin and Sebulba: once a general
RL update was learned on JAX environment in Anakin, the meta-learned update rule was lifted and
loaded in a Sebulba agent to verify it was general enough to also solve Atari 2600 classic video games.
1As of April 12 2021, using the hosted TPU runtime.
2As of April 12 2021, using TPU V3, see https://cloud.google.com/tpu/pricing for reference.
7

Podracer architectures for scalable Reinforcement Learning
Sebulba:
Our second podracer architecture has also been extensively used for exploring a variety of RL ideas at
scale, on environments that cannot be compiled to run on TPU (e.g. Atari, DmLab and Mujoco).
As both IMPALA and Sebulba are based on a decomposition between actors and learners, agents
designed for the IMPALA architecture can be easily mapped onto Sebulba; for instance a Podracer
version of the V-trace agent easily reproduced the results from Espeholt et al. (2018).
However, we found that training an agent for 200 million frames of an Atari game could be done
in just ∼1 hour, by running Sebulba on a 8-core TPU. This comes at a cost of approximately 2.88
dollars, on GCP’s pre-emptible instances. This is similar in cost to training with the more complex
SEED RL framework, and much cheaper than training an agent for 200 million Atari frames using
either IMPALA or single-stream GPU-based system such as that traditionally used by DQN.
Just replicating IMPALA’s setup does not however make the best use of the available resources.
Sebulba enables to scale up in diﬀerent ways which are not exploited by the canonical IMPALA: using
bigger batch size in the actors, increasing the batch size on the learner (by using longer trajectories
and/or more replicas), and using larger or deeper neural networks.
Increasing the batch size is particularly eﬀective at maximising throughput. In Figure 4b, we
report the eﬀect of the actor batch size when training a V-trace agent on an 8-core TPU, with a
trajectory length of 60 (up from 20 in IMPALA) and varying actor batch size. We found increasing the
batch size from 32 (as in IMPALA) to 128 allowed the same V-trace agent to reach 200𝐾frames per
second on an 8 core TPU.
In addition to the trajectory length the eﬀective batch size used to compute each update also
depends on how many times we replicate the basic 8-TPU setup. Sebulba also scales eﬀectively along
this dimension: using 2048 TPU cores (an entire Pod) we were able to further scale all the way to 43
million frames per second, solving the classic Atari videogame pong in less than 1 minute.
One disadvantage of maximising throughput by increasing the batch size on actors and learners is
that, if done naively, it can result in much reduced data eﬃciency. When interested in maximising data
eﬃciency instead of wall-clock time, we found it convenient to scale in a diﬀerent way: maximising
TPU utilisation by using larger networks instead of bigger batches.
The Sebulba architecture was quite eﬀective in this regard as well, by increasing the number
of channels and number of residual blocks in the IMPALA network, we found we could improve
signiﬁcantly the data eﬃciency of our agents. Since this is achieved by improving TPU utilisation
rather than increasing the total number of TPU hours, it does not increase the cost of the experiments.
Sebulba has also been used to train search-based agents inspired by MuZero Schrittwieser et al.
(2020). The workloads associated to these agents are very diﬀerent from that of model-free agents
like IMPALA. The key diﬀerence is in the cost of action selection. This increases because MuZero’s
policy combines search with deep neural networks (used to guide and/or truncate the search).
Typically, search-based agents like MuZero required custom C++ implementations of the search
to deliver good performance. We could reproduce results from MuZero (no Reanalyse) on multiple
RL environments, using Sebulba and a pure JAX implementation of MCTS. Training a MuZero agent
with Sebulba for 200𝑀Atari frames takes 9 hours on a 16-core TPU (at a cost of ∼40 $ on GCP’s
preemptible instances).
We found that scalability, via replication, was particularly useful in this context. Figure 4c reports
the number of frames per seconds processed by Sebulba when running MuZero on Atari, as a function
of the number of TPU cores. The throughput increased linearly with the number of cores.
8

Podracer architectures for scalable Reinforcement Learning
Since in this setting the search was the main bottleck we found that we could eﬃciently decouple
the acting batch size from the learning batch size, by splitting each batch on the learner(s), and then
applying N updates instead of a single larger one. This simple trick allowed to preserve the same
degree of data eﬃciency while scaling up; therefore the linear speed up provided by larger Pod slices
delivered faster turnaround time for research on search based agents, without increasing the cost of
training an agent to any given level of performance.
Conclusions:
We ﬁnd that the Podracer architectures described in this report, and implemented in JAX, are very
eﬀective in supporting a variety of research use cases; they ﬁnd a sweet spot between scalability, on
one side, and ease of implementation and maintainance on the other. Similarly to Espeholt et al.
(2020), we also ﬁnd that RL platforms based on TPUs can deliver exceptional performance at a cost
that is often better to that of training smaller scale agents that lack parallelism or TPU acceleration.
Acknowledgements:
Thanks to all our great colleagues at DeepMind, and in particular to Trevor Cai, Dan Horgan, Hamza
Merzic, Dan Belov for all the great comments, discussions and contributions. Also, thanks the JAX
team for the amazing JAX library that made implementing all these architectures easy and fun!
References
E. T. Barron and R. M. Glorioso. A micro controlled peripheral processor. In Conference Record of the
6th Annual Workshop on Microprogramming, MICRO 6, page 122–128, New York, NY, USA, 1973.
Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781450377836. doi: 10.1145/800203.806247. URL
https://doi.org/10.1145/800203.806247.
D. Beazley. Inside the python gil. Chicago: Chicago Python User Group, 2009.
C. M. Bishop. Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning (Information Science and Statistics). Springer-
Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2006. ISBN 0387310738.
J. Bradbury, R. Frostig, P. Hawkins, M. J. Johnson, C. Leary, D. Maclaurin, G. Necula, A. Paszke, J. Van-
derPlas, S. Wanderman-Milne, and Q. Zhang. JAX: composable transformations of Python+NumPy
programs. http://github.com/google/jax, 2018.
Cauchy. Méthode générale pour la résolution des systèmes d’équations simultanées. Publisher, 1847.
J. Dean, G. Corrado, R. Monga, K. Chen, M. Devin, M. Mao, M. a. Ranzato, A. Senior, P. Tucker, K. Yang,
Q. Le, and A. Ng. Large scale distributed deep networks. In F. Pereira, C. J. C. Burges, L. Bottou,
and K. Q. Weinberger, editors, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 25, pages
1223–1231. Curran Associates, Inc., 2012. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/
2012/file/6aca97005c68f1206823815f66102863-Paper.pdf.
L. Espeholt, H. Soyer, R. Munos, K. Simonyan, V. Mnih, T. Ward, Y. Doron, V. Firoiu, T. Harley,
I. Dunning, S. Legg, and K. Kavukcuoglu. Impala: Scalable distributed deep-rl with importance
weighted actor-learner architectures. In International Conference on Machine Learning, 2018.
9

Podracer architectures for scalable Reinforcement Learning
L. Espeholt, R. Marinier, P. Stanczyk, K. Wang, and M. Michalski. Seed rl: Scalable and eﬃcient
deep-rl with accelerated central inference. In International Conference on Learning Representations,
2020. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=rkgvXlrKwH.
M. J. Flynn. Some computer organizations and their eﬀectiveness. IEEE Transactions on Computers,
C-21(9):948–960, 1972. doi: 10.1109/TC.1972.5009071.
C. R. Harris, K. J. Millman, S. J. van der Walt, R. Gommers, P. Virtanen, D. Cournapeau, E. Wieser,
J. Taylor, S. Berg, N. J. Smith, R. Kern, M. Picus, S. Hoyer, M. H. van Kerkwijk, M. Brett, A. Haldane,
J. F. del R’ıo, M. Wiebe, P. Peterson, P. G’erard-Marchant, K. Sheppard, T. Reddy, W. Weckesser,
H. Abbasi, C. Gohlke, and T. E. Oliphant. Array programming with NumPy. Nature, 585(7825):
357–362, Sept. 2020. doi: 10.1038/s41586-020-2649-2. URL https://doi.org/10.1038/
s41586-020-2649-2.
M. Hessel, J. Modayil, H. van Hasselt, T. Schaul, G. Ostrovski, W. Dabney, D. Horgan, B. Piot, M. G.
Azar, and D. Silver. Rainbow: Combining improvements in deep reinforcement learning. In
S. A. McIlraith and K. Q. Weinberger, editors, AAAI, pages 3215–3222. AAAI Press, 2018. URL
http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/aaai/aaai2018.html#HesselMHSODHPAS18.
D. Horgan, J. Quan, D. Budden, G. Barth-Maron, M. Hessel, H. van Hasselt, and D. Silver. Distributed
prioritized experience replay. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2018. URL
https://openreview.net/forum?id=H1Dy---0Z.
N. P. Jouppi, C. Young, N. Patil, D. Patterson, G. Agrawal, R. Bajwa, S. Bates, S. Bhatia, N. Boden,
A. Borchers, R. Boyle, P. luc Cantin, C. Chao, C. Clark, J. Coriell, M. Daley, M. Dau, J. Dean,
B. Gelb, T. V. Ghaemmaghami, R. Gottipati, W. Gulland, R. Hagmann, C. R. Ho, D. Hogberg, J. Hu,
R. Hundt, D. Hurt, J. Ibarz, A. Jaﬀey, A. Jaworski, A. Kaplan, H. Khaitan, D. Killebrew, A. Koch,
N. Kumar, S. Lacy, J. Laudon, J. Law, D. Le, C. Leary, Z. Liu, K. Lucke, A. Lundin, G. MacKean,
A. Maggiore, M. Mahony, K. Miller, R. Nagarajan, R. Narayanaswami, R. Ni, K. Nix, T. Norrie,
M. Omernick, N. Penukonda, A. Phelps, J. Ross, M. Ross, A. Salek, E. Samadiani, C. Severn,
G. Sizikov, M. Snelham, J. Souter, D. Steinberg, A. Swing, M. Tan, G. Thorson, B. Tian, H. Toma,
E. Tuttle, V. Vasudevan, R. Walter, W. Wang, E. Wilcox, and D. H. Yoon. In-datacenter performance
analysis of a tensor processing unit. In ISCA, pages 1–12. ACM, 2017. ISBN 978-1-4503-4892-8. URL
http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/isca/isca2017.html#JouppiYPPABBBBB17.
A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton.
Imagenet classiﬁcation with deep convolutional
neural networks.
In F. Pereira, C. J. C. Burges, L. Bottou, and K. Q. Weinberger, edi-
tors, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 25, pages 1097–1105. Cur-
ran Associates, Inc., 2012. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2012/file/
c399862d3b9d6b76c8436e924a68c45b-Paper.pdf.
E. Liang, R. Liaw, R. Nishihara, P. Moritz, R. Fox, K. Goldberg, J. Gonzalez, M. Jordan, and I. Stoica.
RLlib: Abstractions for distributed reinforcement learning. In J. Dy and A. Krause, editors, Proceed-
ings of the 35th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 80 of Proceedings of Machine
Learning Research, pages 3053–3062, Stockholmsmässan, Stockholm Sweden, 10–15 Jul 2018.
PMLR. URL http://proceedings.mlr.press/v80/liang18b.html.
T. P. Lillicrap, J. J. Hunt, A. Pritzel, N. Heess, T. Erez, Y. Tassa, D. Silver, and D. Wierstra. Continuous
control with deep reinforcement learning. In Y. Bengio and Y. LeCun, editors, ICLR, 2016.
J. McCarthy. Recursive functions of symbolic expressions and their computation by machine, part i.
Commun. ACM, 3(4):184–195, Apr. 1960. ISSN 0001-0782. doi: 10.1145/367177.367199. URL
https://doi.org/10.1145/367177.367199.
10

Podracer architectures for scalable Reinforcement Learning
M. Minsky. Steps toward artiﬁcial intelligence. Proceedings of the IRE, 49(1):8–30, 1961.
V. Mnih, K. Kavukcuoglu, D. Silver, A. A. Rusu, J. Veness, M. G. Bellemare, A. Graves, M. Riedmiller,
A. K. Fidjeland, G. Ostrovski, S. Petersen, C. Beattie, A. Sadik, I. Antonoglou, H. King, D. Kumaran,
D. Wierstra, S. Legg, and D. Hassabis. Human-level control through deep reinforcement learning.
Nature, 2015.
V. Mnih, A. P. Badia, M. Mirza, A. Graves, T. Lillicrap, T. Harley, D. Silver, and K. Kavukcuoglu.
Asynchronous methods for deep reinforcement learning. In International conference on machine
learning, pages 1928–1937, 2016.
K. P. Murphy. Machine Learning: A Probabilistic Perspective. The MIT Press, 2012. ISBN 0262018020.
A. Nair, P. Srinivasan, S. Blackwell, C. Alcicek, R. Fearon, A. D. Maria, V. Panneershelvam, M. Suleyman,
C. Beattie, S. Petersen, S. Legg, V. Mnih, K. Kavukcuoglu, and D. Silver. Massively parallel methods
for deep reinforcement learning. CoRR, abs/1507.04296, 2015. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/
1507.04296.
Nolan. Analytical diﬀerentiation on a digital computer. Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology, 1953.
J. Oh, M. Hessel, W. M. Czarnecki, Z. Xu, H. van Hasselt, S. Singh, and D. Silver. Discovering
reinforcement learning algorithms, 2021.
M. Petrov, S. Sidor, S. Zhang, J. Pachocki, P. D˛ebiak, F. Wolski, C. Dennison, H. Pondé, G. Brockman,
J. Tang, D. Farhi, B. Chan, and J. Raiman. Openai rapid. https://openai.com/blog/openai-ﬁve/,
2018.
J. Schrittwieser, I. Antonoglou, T. Hubert, K. Simonyan, L. Sifre, S. Schmitt, A. Guez, E. Lockhart,
D. Hassabis, T. Graepel, T. Lillicrap, and D. Silver. Mastering Atari, Go, chess and shogi by planning
with a learned model. Nature, 588(7839):604–609, Dec 2020. ISSN 1476-4687.
D. Silver, A. Huang, C. J. Maddison, A. Guez, L. Sifre, G. Van Den Driessche, J. Schrittwieser,
I. Antonoglou, V. Panneershelvam, M. Lanctot, et al. Mastering the game of Go with deep neural
networks and tree search. Nature, 529(7587):484, 2016.
D. Silver, T. Hubert, J. Schrittwieser, I. Antonoglou, M. Lai, A. Guez, M. Lanctot, L. Sifre, D. Kumaran,
T. Graepel, T. P. Lillicrap, K. Simonyan, and D. Hassabis. Mastering chess and shogi by self-play
with a general reinforcement learning algorithm. CoRR, abs/1712.01815, 2017. URL http:
//arxiv.org/abs/1712.01815.
B. Speelpenning. Compiling fast partial derivatives of functions given by algorithms. Technical
Report COO-2383-0063; UILU-ENG-80-1702; UIUCDCS-R-80-1002, Illinois Univeristy, Urbana,
USA, 1980.
A. Stooke and P. Abbeel. Accelerated methods for deep reinforcement learning. CoRR, abs/1803.02811,
2018. URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1803.02811.
R. S. Sutton and A. G. Barto. Reinforcement learning: An introduction. MIT press, 2018.
X. team. Xla — tensorﬂow, compiled. https://developers.googleblog.com, 2017.
H. Van Hasselt. Reinforcement learning in continuous state and action spaces. In Reinforcement
learning, pages 207–251. Springer, 2012.
11

Podracer architectures for scalable Reinforcement Learning
M. Ward. Proving program reﬁnements and transformations. PhD thesis, University of Oxford, UK,
1989. URL http://ethos.bl.uk/OrderDetails.do?uin=uk.bl.ethos.306712.
R. E. Wengert. A simple automatic derivative evaluation program. Commun. ACM, 7(8):463–464,
1964. URL http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/journals/cacm/cacm7.html#Wengert64.
Z. Xu, H. van Hasselt, M. Hessel, J. Oh, S. Singh, and D. Silver. Meta-gradient reinforcement learning
with an objective discovered online, 2020.
T. Zahavy, Z. Xu, V. Veeriah, M. Hessel, J. Oh, H. van Hasselt, D. Silver, and S. Singh. A self-tuning
actor-critic algorithm, 2020.
12
