An Introduction of mini-AlphaStar
Ruo-Ze Liu∗1, Wenhai Wang1, Yanjie Shen1, Zhiqi Li1, Yang Yu1,
and Tong Lu1
1Nanjing University, Nanjing, China
Abstract
StarCraft II (SC2) is a real-time strategy game in which players pro-
duce and control multiple units to ﬁght against opponent’s units. Due
to its diﬃculties, such as huge state space, various action space, a long
time horizon, and imperfect information, SC2 has been a research hotspot
in reinforcement learning. Recently, an agent called AlphaStar (AS) has
been proposed, which shows good performance, obtaining a high win-rates
of 99.8% against human players. We implemented a mini-scaled version
of it called mini-AlphaStar (mAS) based on AS’s paper and pseudocode.
The diﬀerence between AS and mAS is that we substituted the hyper-
parameters of AS with smaller ones for mini-scale training. Codes of mAS
are all open-sourced1 for future research.
1
Introduction
StarCraft II (SC2) is a new challenge for reinforcement learning (RL) [1].
To tackle it, DeepMind has proposed a learning environment called SC2LE
(short for StarCraft II learning environment) [2] for researchers to build its
agents on the SC2. The SC2LE provides a human-level API for interacting
between the agents and SC2. E.g., the agent should ﬁrst select the unit by the
unit’s coordinate position in the game screen, and then the unit can be given
a command. This schema greatly improves the learning diﬃculties. The agent
not only needs to learn which action to do but also needs to learn how to select.
Several works of research [3, 4, 5] have tried on this setting. But they only test
against the built-in AIs. This situation is changed due to the proposition of
AlphaStar [6].
AlphaStar (AS) has beaten 99.8% human players on Battle.Net (the bat-
tle matching platform for SC2). Compared to previous methods, AS has three
diﬀerences: (1) huge computing resources. AS uses 128,000 CPU cores and 384
TPUs for training while lasting 44 training days; (2) a big neural network. AS’s
∗liuruoze@163.com
1https://github.com/liuruoze/mini-AlphaStar
1
arXiv:2104.06890v2  [cs.AI]  17 Nov 2021

model consists of 3 encoders, 1 core, and 6 heads. Each of them contains one
or multi convolution neural networks, recurrent neural networks, and Trans-
formers [7]; (3) usage of many new tricks, such as behavior cloning, pointer
network, pFSP algorithm (a gaming theory method), and the scatter way in
feature maps. These all contributed to AS’s good performance. AS’s success is
not only an advance of technology but also an artwork of engineering.
However, AS is still not a perfect method to solve SC2 due to the follow-
ing reasons. First, AS doesn’t use the human-level API in SC2LE (also called
feature-level API). AS used is a raw-level API arising in the 3rd version of
SC2LE’s python interface, PySC2. The learning diﬃculties between the two are
quite diﬀerent. The exploring space for raw-level API is indeed much smaller
than human-level. Thus reinforcement learning is easier. Second, the AS ex-
ploits human data in three ways. The overmuch usage of human data makes
the learned agent more likely to imitate human behaviors instead of exploring
new strategies. Third, the combat settings between AS and humans are not so
fair (such as diﬀerences of EPM, camera moving operations, and control accu-
racy), making humans at a disadvantage in ﬁghting against it, which reduced
the persuasive results. For more information, we recommend the readers refer
to another more detailed paper.
In this paper, we present our re-implementation of AS, called mini-AlphaStar
(short as mAS). The design and implementation details are referenced by AS’s
Nature paper [6] and the supplementary details of that paper. We keep the
structure and method of mAS similar to AS’s but make many hyper-parameters
much smaller ones (making it can be trained in a common commercial machine).
We test the supervised learning code and reinforcement learning code of mAS
and ﬁnd it can be running as expected (however, the ﬁnal performance of the
training is not ideal).
Section 2 presents the background knowledge of this paper. Section 3 intro-
duces the deep neural network structure of mAS, the supervised learning and
reinforcement learning of mAS, and the multi-agent mechanism. Section 4 gives
the settings of mAS. Section 5 concludes the paper.
2
Background
Reinforcement learning is a sub-area of machine learning, which aims to obtain
smart agents through training them within a speciﬁc environment to maximize
the cumulative reward value. A popular research ﬁeld in reinforcement learning
is games. Initially, this method is used to solve simple games such as Black Jack
and Atari games. With the rapid development of this ﬁeld, attention has shifted
to more complex games, as well as changes in research objects, from single-agent
to multi-agent. As a typical multi-agent game, SC2 becomes a hot spot.
Reinforcement learning has made some progress in the research of StarCraft.
Oriol Vinyals et al.[8] introduced the SC2 game environment, describing the
characteristics and research challenges in this problem. Julian Togelius et al.[9]
devised a representation of StarCraft maps suitable for evolutionary search.
2

Nicolas Usunier et al.[10] applied episodic exploration for deep deterministic
policies to StarCraft micromanagement tasks. Peng Sun et al.[11] presented
their game agents that succeeded in defeating the cheating level built-in AI in
the full game of SC2.
3
Methods
3.1
Overall Structure
The whole method consists of four main parts: Deep Neural Networks (DNN)
architecture; Supervised Learning (SL) process; Reinforcement Learning (RL)
process; and Multi-Agent (MA) League.
DNN part is the base model for SL and RL. The agent was ﬁrstly trained by
supervised learning using game replays of expert human players to obtain a base
agent can imitate human players, which is implemented in the SL part. Then, the
pre-trained agent will be trained through a series of self-play matches, using the
reinforcement learning method to continuously adjust its policy network, which
is implemented in the RL part. To improve the performance of reinforcement
learning, a multi-agent league is used for collecting diﬀerent trained agents and
arranging matches between agents according to win-loss probability. The league
also deﬁnes diﬀerent kinds of agents with speciﬁc training targets, improving the
training process by their cooperation. These selection algorithms for choosing
which agent to be the opponents are implemented in the MA part.
3.2
Neural Network Architecture
The DNN architecture contains 3 encoder parts, 1 core part, and 6 head parts.
The 3 encoders are entity encoder, spatial encoder, and scalar encoder. The
entity encoder is used for processing the states of each entity to be one single
tensor for further processing. The entity can be a unit or a building. The spatial
encoder is used for processing the feature maps of the game screen or minimap.
E.g., the height map or the visible map are processed in this encoder. The
scalar encoder is for processing the statistical information of the game, e.g., the
current minerals or supply of the game. The tensors output from the 3 three
encodes are concatenated to input to the core part. The core part is a big LSTM
which is to process the history information. LSTM accepts the input from the
current state information from 3 encoders and the historical information from
the hidden state. The output of the core part is going to the ﬁrst head of the 6
heads, which is the action-type head. The action-type head decides which action
type the agent will choose now. And its output is also carried on to the next
head, which is the queue head. The output of the queue head decides the action
whether should be queued. The output is also carried on to the next head. These
transfers will be repeated. The next heads are delay head, selected units head,
target unit head, and target location head respectively. The delay head decides
how many frames the action will be delayed. The selected unit head decides
3

which units will be put these actions. The target unit head and target location
head decide which target will be chosen. The target will be an enemy unit or
one position, so only one output of the two heads will be selected.
For RL training, the game process is pushed forward in frames. In each
frame, the agent obtains the action by calling a step function. The step func-
tion accepts the observation and the previous hidden state, then outputs the
action. The observation is called MsState. The three parts of MsState, the en-
tity state, the spatial state, the scalar state, are pre-processed using diﬀerent
encoders respectively, and then be transferred to the core part. LSTM in the
core part accepts the encoder input and generates the core output and the new
hidden state. Then, the action type and an autoregressive embedding are got
by passing the output of the core through a seris of processing. The action-type
and the autoregressive embedding are used to generate other heads including
the delay, the queue, the selected units, the target unit, and the target location
respectively. Outputs from these heads form an ArgsAction. The ArgsAction
will be transformed into a function call of PySC2 and will be applied in the
environment.
Encoder Structure
We have diﬀerent encoders for the three parts of MsState. In the entity encoder,
the input is ﬁrst embedded by a linear layer, then processed by a transformer.
The output is passed through a ReLU and then a 2D convolution layer with
ReLU to obtain entity-embedding. We also get embedded-entity by calculating
the mean across all entities (the transformer output) and passing it through
a linear layer with ReLU. Both two results are returned as the output of the
encoder. The illustration of the entity encoder is shown in Fig. 1.
Figure 1: The entity encoder.
In the spatial encoder, the input is ﬁrst projected by a 2D convolution layer
and a ReLU then downsampled through three 2D convolution layers, passed
through several Resblocks to generate the map-skip, and ﬁnally through a linear
layer with ReLU to generate the embedded-spatial. The results of the map-skip,
the embedded-spatial are returned together as the output of the encoder.
4

In the scalar encoder, we ﬁrst split the input scalar list into detailed elements.
Each element is passed through the corresponding linear layer with ReLU and
appended to a scalar list or context list. Then the elements in two lists are
concatenated into a tensor and passed through a linear layer with ReLU respec-
tively. The results, embedded-scalar-out, and scalar-context-out, are returned
together as the output of the encoder.
For transformer structure in the entity encoder, it consists of three encoder
layers, each of which contains two sublayers, an att (multi-head attention) layer,
and an ﬀ(position-wise feed-forward) layer. The att layer contains a residual
network, which receives three inputs and generates an output value and an
attention value. The ﬀlayers receive the output of the att layer as input and
also pass it through a residual network with two linear layers, one with ReLU
and one with dropout. Finally, the result is returned together with the attention
value. The output values are computed recursively through encoder layers, while
attention values generated in each encoder layer are collected in a list. The
illustration of the transformer structure is shown in Fig. 2.
Core Structure
The core receives the previous hidden state and three embedded tensors (i.e.,
embedded-scalar, embedded-entity, and embedded-spatial). The embedded ten-
sors are concatenated into one tensor. It is noted that before forwarding, the
tensor shape is [batch seq size, embedding size], we transform the shape to the
[batch size, seq size, embedding size]. The LSTM model will accept the tensor
and the previous hidden state, and output the new output and the new hidden
state.
Head Structure
We have six arguments in the action, which are action type, delay, queue, se-
lected unit, target unit, and location. These components are generated in the
following heads respectively.
In the action-type head, we get LSTM output and scalar context as input.
The LSTM output is ﬁrst embedded through a linear layer with the shape
original 256, then through a series of Resblocks and ReLU. The result is then
passed through a GLU gated by scalar context to generate action type logits.
The action type is sampled from the probability obtained by applying a softmax
on logits with temperature. Then we transfer the action type into one-hot and
pass it through a linear layer with ReLU. The result and LSTM output are
passed through GLU gated by scalar context respectively and added together
to obtain autoregressive embedding. The logits, action-type, and autoregressive
embedding are returned as output.
In delay head, we ﬁrst decode the autoregressive embedding by passing it
through two linear layers (each with size original 256) with ReLU, then embed
the result with a linear layer with shape last-delay. The delay value is sampled in
a similar way as above. Then we transfer it to one-hot, pass it through two linear
5

Figure 2: The transformer structure.
layers with ReLU, and ﬁnally project it to the shape same as autoregressive
embedding. The result is added to the old autoregressive value and then returned
as the new one, together with logits and delay value.
The way we deal with queue head is similar to that in delay head, except
that the project queued value is applied a mask before added to autoregressive-
embedding, which checks if queuing is possible for the chosen action type.
6

In the selected-units head, we ﬁrst use a mask to determine which entity
types can accept the action-type and generate a one-hot vector to represent it,
then embed it through a linear layer with ReLU to obtain func-embed with
shape original 256. We also compute a mask representing which units can be
selected, and a key corresponding to each entity passing the entity-embedding
through a 1D convolution layer with original 32 channels and kernel size 1. Then,
we repeat the following procedure for selecting the max-limit of units: we ﬁrst
pass autoregressive-embedding through a linear layer with shape original 256
and add it to func-embed, then pass the result through a linear layer with
shape original 32 and through ReLU, and feed it to LSTM (especially deﬁned
in this head) to generate query output and new hidden state. We multiply key
and query, and then apply the mask computed above, obtaining the logits by
dividing it by temperature. We compute entity-probs and sample entity-id as
usual and append them to the logit list and unit list respectively. To update
autoregressive-embedding, we transfer entity-id into one-hot and multiply it
with key. We subtract the mean value of the one-hot from the result and project
it through a linear layer, and ﬁnally add it to autoregressive-embedding. After
the iteration, we concatenate the elements of logits and units respectively and
return them together with autoregressive-embedding, each multiplied with a
mask that represents whether action-type involves selecting units.
The process in the target-unit head is similar to what we do in the select-unit
head, except that we do not update autoregressive-embedding since this head
in one of the terminal heads. The other terminal head is the location head.
In the location head, we get autoregressive-embedding, action-type, and
map-skip as input. We ﬁrst concatenate autoregressive-embedding and map-skip
along the channel dimension, then pass it through a ReLU and a 2D convolution
layer with ReLU. The result is passed through a FiLM gated by autoregressive-
embedding and then added with map skip. Afterward, it is unsampled by a
series of transposed 2D convolution layers, then applied a mask decided by
action-type to rule out the invalid locations, and we obtain the logits by divid-
ing the result by temperature. Then we sample location-id using the probability
of softmax value of logits and obtain location-out by calculating the coordinate
from the index. Logits and location-out are both applied by a mask to check if
the action-type involves targeting location and ﬁnally returned.
3.3
Supervised Learning
Training data
Training datasets are game replays from human players that were pre-processed
into the feature label format. Features represent the game states of the player,
while labels represent the actions taken by the player. The feature action pairs
can be transformed into trajectories in the form of [state, action, isfinal] for
training use. A dataset object is constructed with replay data loaded by Py-
Torch. During learning, the supervised learner obtains training and testing data
from it, and the predicted action value is generated by unrolling the state with
7

network forwarding.
Loss Function
The label (action) to be learned contains six important parts, which are action
type, delay, and queue. Therefore, the supervised training loss takes into con-
sideration the corresponding loss, action type loss t, delay loss d, queue loss q,
units loss u, target unit loss tu if have, and target location loss tl if have. Thus
we have the loss function
L = C(tp, tg) + C(dp, dg) + C(qp, qg) + C(up, ug) + C(tup, tug) + C(tlp, tlg) (1)
where C denotes cross-entropy loss function, p and g are predict value and replay
value respectively.
We additionally use a gradient clip of 0.5 to prevent gradient explosion and
then apply updates to parameters with the Adam optimizer via gradient back-
ward.
3.4
Reinforcement Learning
State
We maintain two states during training. One is the LSTM hidden state, which
contains the information of all previous states and actions; the other is the
MsState, which represents the current game state based on the player’s obser-
vations, consisting of entity state, statistical state, and map state. The entity
state contains information about the unit’s status like unit position, health,
attack/armor level, weapon cooldown; the statistical state represents some sys-
temic properties like player/opponent race and upgrades, time, available actions;
map state reveals the map information.
Training process
We use an actor-learner scheme for reinforcement learning. The actor thread
and learner thread are created when the training starts. The actor thread con-
tinuously carries forward the game and keeps adding each other’s trajectory into
a list. When a speciﬁc number of trajectories are collected, they will be sent to
the learner. When the number of trajectories received by the learner reaches
batch-size, the learner extracts this batch and computes the loss function for it,
and ﬁnally, network parameters are updated according to it.
Loss Function
The loss function used in learner parameter update consists of four parts sum-
ming up.
The ﬁrst part is actor-critic loss. It computes the pseudo-reward of actor
trajectories and computes TD(λ) with the baseline pseudo-reward associated
with following the human strategy statistic z. It also computes the split vtrace
8

pg-loss (policy-gradient), by calculating vtrace pg-loss respectively for “action
type”, “delay” and “arguments”, which sums up pg-loss on all sets of logits of
autoregressive actions. pg-loss is calculated using cross-entropy loss over logits
and actions. The results above will be added up as a total actor-critic loss.
To compute the baseline, we ﬁrst pre-process the observation of the player
and the opponent and obtain each other’s scalar-out value to form the action
type together with the LSTM output. We pass it through a linear of original 256
with ReLU, then through ResBlocks with original 256 hidden units and layer
normalization, and then through a ReLU and a linear with 1 hidden unit to get
result b. Finally, we obtain the baseline value
baseline = 2
π arctan(π
2 b)
(2)
The second part is split upgo-loss. We ﬁrst remove the last timestep for
trajectories and baselines, then calculate upgo-return from state values, step
rewards, discount, and bootstrap values. Importance weight is computed by the
diﬀerence between behavior log probability from cut trajectories and target log
probability, then weighted advantage is obtained by multiplying the diﬀerence
of upgo returns and state values with it. Finally, we compute the pg-loss on
target logits and action type values obtained from trajectories, by multiplying
it with the weighted advantage. The equation can be written as
Loss = weight ∗C(logitst, action)
(3)
weight is computed as
(upgo return −baseline) ∗exp(C(action, logitst) −C(action, logitsb))
(4)
upgo return is computed as
lambda return(bootstraps, rewards, discounts, lambdas)
(5)
where C denotes cross-entropy loss function, and logitst and logitsb respectively
denotes split target logits and behavior logits.
The third part computes the KL divergence between the actor trajectories
to the supervised trained human policy, and the last part computes the entropy-
loss for a set of policy logits.
3.5
Multi-Agent League
League Architecture
For self-play in reinforcement learning, we build a multi-agent league with three
types of agents: main player (MP), main exploiter (ME), and league exploiters
(LE). Main players are trained for improving themselves, while exploiters are
trained to ﬁnd the weakness of other agents. We also use a coordinator to
maintain the payoﬀmatrix and assigns new matches.
9

The payoﬀmatrix is initialized when league training begins, containing the
original agents. During the training process, outcomes of each match will be sent
to the coordinator, updating the win-loss status between players in the matrix.
For each training agent, checkpoints are set when its win rate to other his-
torical players is higher than 0.7, or a speciﬁc number (like 4 × 109)of steps has
passed. When an agent reaches the checkpoint, the current model of it will be
added as a historical (i.e., past player) into the league.
Game Matching
The three types of agents have diﬀerent training targets: main players train
against all historical main players; main exploiters train against all players;
league exploiters train against all historical players. Therefore, they have diﬀer-
ent mechanisms to get a match opponent
We use the priority ﬁctitious self-play (PFSP) algorithm to randomly sample
an opponent for a given player, by calculating the probabilities using a speciﬁc
weighting function on win-rate, then randomly choose one according to normal-
ized probability. Weight functions includes “linear”, “linear capped”, “variance”
and “squared”, and “linear” is set as default.
For main players, they have a 0.5 probability to directly sample a random
historical player with squared weight; otherwise, they either try to ﬁnd some
rare players omitted or arbitrarily choose a main player and sample one of its
historical with variance weight instead if it is too hard to beat.
For main exploiters, they ﬁrst arbitrarily choose a main player. If the win
rate against it is above 0.1, they will return it as the opponent; Otherwise, they
will instead sample a random historical of it with variance weight.
For league exploiters, they directly sample a random historical player with
linear capped weight.
4
Setting
In mini-AlphaStar, we substitute the hyper-parameters in AlphaStar, which
includes races, batch size, network shape, etc., with smaller ones, in order to
support mini-scale training. The detailed values are shown in the Table 1, which
compares the parameters between AlphaStar and mini-AlphaStar.
AlphaStar
Mini-AlphaStar
Races
Protoss, Zerg, Terran
Protoss
batch size
512/A s
96/A s
sequence length
64/A s
64/A s
max entities
64/A s
32/A s
max selected
512/A s
384/A s
minimap size
128
64
embedding size
3585
1543
map channels
18
18
10

scalar encoder fc input
1504
864
scalar encoder fc input
544
448
scalar feature size
7327
7327
entity embedding size
256
64
lstm hidden dim
384
128
lstm layers
3
1
n resblocks
16
4
original 1024
1024
256
original 512
512
128
original 256
256
64
original 128
128
48
original 64
64
32
original 32
32
16
context size
512
128
location head max map channels
128
32
autoregressive embedding size
1024
256
baseline input size
1152
1152
league learner num
12
4
actorloop num
16000
512
Table 1: Comparison of hyper-parameters. A s=Adjustable scale.
5
Conclusion
AlphaStar is a program that achieves Grandmaster level in SC2 for the ﬁrst
time. We have implemented most of the components, with a few functions to be
ﬁnished, including the z value generation. In the future, we will try to do more
experiments on it for assessment and improvements.
11

6
Reference
[1] Richard S. Sutton and Andrew G. Barto.
Reinforcement Learning: An
Introduction, volume 135. 1998.
[2] Oriol Vinyals, Timo Ewalds, Sergey Bartunov, and et al. Starcraft II: A
new challenge for reinforcement learning. CoRR, 2017.
[3] Peng Sun and et al. TStarBots: Defeating the Cheating Level Builtin AI
in StarCraft II in the full game. CoRR, 2018.
[4] Zhen-Jia Pang, Ruo-Ze Liu, and et al. On reinforcement learning for full-
length game of starcraft. In AAAI, 2019.
[5] Dennis Lee, Haoran Tang, and el al. Modular Architecture for StarCraft
II with Deep Reinforcement Learning. In AIIDE, pages 187–193, 2018.
[6] Oriol Vinyals, Igor Babuschkin, Wojciech M Czarnecki, Micha¨el Mathieu,
Andrew Dudzik, Junyoung Chung, David H Choi, Richard Powell, Timo
Ewalds, Petko Georgiev, Junhyuk Oh, Dan Horgan, Manuel Kroiss, Ivo
Danihelka, Aja Huang, Laurent Sifre, Trevor Cai, John P Agapiou, Max
Jaderberg, Alexander S Vezhnevets, R´emi Leblond, Tobias Pohlen, Valentin
Dalibard, David Budden, Yury Sulsky, James Molloy, Tom L Paine, Caglar
Gulcehre, Ziyu Wang, Tobias Pfaﬀ, Yuhuai Wu, Roman Ring, Dani Yo-
gatama, Dario W¨unsch, Katrina McKinney, Oliver Smith, Tom Schaul,
Timothy Lillicrap, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Demis Hassabis, Chris Apps, and
David Silver. Grandmaster level in StarCraft II using multi-agent reinforce-
ment learning. Nature, 2019.
[7] Ashish Vaswani and et al. Attention is all you need. In NIPS, 2017.
[8] Oriol Vinyals, Timo Ewalds, Sergey Bartunov, Petko Georgiev, Alexan-
der Sasha Vezhnevets, Michelle Yeo, Alireza Makhzani, Heinrich K¨uttler,
John Agapiou, Julian Schrittwieser, John Quan, Stephen Gaﬀney, Stig Pe-
tersen, Karen Simonyan, Tom Schaul, Hado van Hasselt, David Silver,
Timothy Lillicrap, Kevin Calderone, Paul Keet, Anthony Brunasso, David
Lawrence, Anders Ekermo, Jacob Repp, and Rodney Tsing. Starcraft ii: A
new challenge for reinforcement learning, 2017.
[9] J. Togelius, M. Preuss, N. Beume, S. Wessing, J. Hagelb¨ack, and G. N.
Yannakakis.
Multiobjective exploration of the starcraft map space.
In
Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE Conference on Computational Intelligence
and Games, pages 265–272, 2010.
[10] Nicolas Usunier, Gabriel Synnaeve, Zeming Lin, and Soumith Chintala.
Episodic exploration for deep deterministic policies: An application to star-
craft micromanagement tasks, 2016.
12

[11] Peng Sun, Xinghai Sun, Lei Han, Jiechao Xiong, Qing Wang, Bo Li, Yang
Zheng, Ji Liu, Yongsheng Liu, Han Liu, and Tong Zhang. Tstarbots: De-
feating the cheating level builtin ai in starcraft ii in the full game, 2018.
13
