Honor of Kings Arena: an Environment for
Generalization in Competitive Reinforcement
Learning
Hua Wei∗†♭, Jingxiao Chen∗‡♭, Xiyang Ji∗§, Hongyang Qin§, Minwen Deng§, Siqin Li§,
Liang Wang§, Weinan Zhang‡, Yong Yu‡, Lin Liu♮, Lanxiao Huang♮,
Deheng Ye§B, Qiang Fu§, Wei Yang§
§Tencent AI Lab, ♮Tencent Timi Studio,
†New Jersey Institute of Technology, ‡Shanghai Jiao Tong University
hua.wei@njit.edu, timemachine@sjtu.edu.cn, wnzhang@sjtu.edu.cn, yyu@apex.sjtu.edu.cn,
{xiyangji, hongyangqin, danierdeng, gracesqli, enginewang, lincliu, jackiehuang,
dericye, leonfu, willyang}@tencent.com
Abstract
This paper introduces Honor of Kings Arena, a reinforcement learning (RL) envi-
ronment based on Honor of Kings, one of the world’s most popular games at present.
Compared to other environments studied in most previous work, ours presents new
generalization challenges for competitive reinforcement learning. It is a multi-
agent problem with one agent competing against its opponent; and it requires the
generalization ability as it has diverse targets to control and diverse opponents to
compete with. We describe the observation, action, and reward speciﬁcations for
the Honor of Kings domain and provide an open-source Python-based interface
for communicating with the game engine. We provide twenty target heroes with
a variety of tasks in Honor of Kings Arena and present initial baseline results for
RL-based methods with feasible computing resources. Finally, we showcase the
generalization challenges imposed by Honor of Kings Arena and possible reme-
dies to the challenges. All of the software, including the environment-class, are
publicly available at: https://github.com/tencent-ailab/hok_env. The
documentation is available at: https://aiarena.tencent.com/hok/doc/.
1
Introduction
Games have been used as testbeds to measure AI capabilities in the past few decades, from backgam-
mon [22] to chess [19] and Atari games [14]. In 2016, AlphaGo defeated the world champion through
deep reinforcement learning and Monte Carlo tree search [19]. In recent years, reinforcement learning
models have brought huge advancements in robot control [8], autonomous driving [16], and video
games like StarCraft [23], Dota [1], Minecraft [7] and Honor of Kings [26, 28, 29].
Related to previous AI milestones, the research focus of game AI has shifted from board games
to more complex games, such as imperfect information poker games [2] and real-time strategic
games [28]. As a sub-genre of real-time strategic games, Multi-player Online Battle Arena (MOBA)
games have attracted much attention recently [1, 29]. The unique playing mechanics of MOBA
involve role/hero play and multi-player. Especially since MOBA games have different roles/heroes
and each role has different actions, a good AI model needs to perform stably well in controlling the
* Authors contributed equally; ♭work done at Tencent
B Corresponding author
36th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2022) Track on Datasets and Benchmarks.
arXiv:2209.08483v3  [cs.LG]  18 Oct 2022

(a) User interface
(b) Change of opponents
(c) Change of targets
Figure 1: Game user interface (UI) and the change of opponents and targets in one match of Honor of Kings. (a)
In the main screen, there are four sub-parts: a mini-map on the top-left, a dashboard that records the number of
KDAs (kill/death/assist) on the top-right, a movement controller on the bottom-left, and skill controller buttons
on the bottom-right. (b) The environment changes with different opponent heroes. (c) The action space changes
with different target heroes.
actions of different heroes against different opponent heroes. This makes MOBA 1v1 games, which
focus on hero control [29], a perfect testbed to test the generality of models under different tasks.
Existing benchmark environments on RL generality are mainly focusing on relatively narrow tasks
for a single agent. For example, MetaWorld [30] and RLBench [10] present benchmarks of simulated
manipulation tasks in a shared, table-top environment with a simulated arm, whose goal is to train the
arm controller to complete tasks like opening the door, fetching balls, etc. As the agent’s action space
remains the same as an arm, it is hard to tell the generality of the learned RL on more diverse tasks
like simulated legs.
In this paper, we provide Honor of Kings Arena, a MOBA 1v1 game environment, authorized by
the original game Honor of Kings1. The game of Honor of Kings was reported to be one of the
world’s most popular and highest-grossing games of all time, as well as the most downloaded App
worldwide. As of November 2020, the game was reported to have over 100 million daily active
players [21]. There are two camps in MOBA 1v1, each with one agent, and each agent controls a
hero character. As shown in Figure 1(a), an Honor of Kings player uses the bottom-left steer button to
control the movements of a hero and uses the bottom-right set of buttons to control the hero’s skills.
To win a game, agents must take actions with planning, attacking, defending and skill combos, with
consideration on the opponents in the partially observable environment.
Speciﬁcally, the Honor of Kings Arena imposes the following challenges regarding generalization:
• Generalization across opponents. When controlling one target hero, its opponent hero varies
across different matches. There are over 20 possible opponent heroes in Honor of Kings Arena (in the
original game there are over 100 heroes), each having different inﬂuences in the game environment.
If we keep the same target hero and vary the opponent hero as in Figure 1(b), Honor of Kings Arena
could be treated as a similar environment as MetaWorld [30], which both provides a variety of tasks
for the same agent with the same action space.
• Generalization across targets. The generality challenge of RL arises to a different dimension
when it comes to the competitive setting. In a match of MOBA game like Honor of Kings and DOTA,
players also need to master different hero targets. Playing a different MOBA hero is like playing a
different game since different heroes have various attacking and healing skills, and the action control
can completely change from hero to hero, as shown in Figure 1(c). With over 20 heroes to control for
Honor of Kings Arena, it calls for robust and generalized modeling in RL.
Contributions: As we will show in this paper, the above-mentioned challenges are not well solved
by existing RL methods under Honor of Kings Arena. In summary, our contributions are as follows:
• We provide the Honor of Kings Arena, a highly-optimized game engine that simulates the popular
MOBA game, Honor of Kings. It supports 20 heroes in the competitive mode.
• We introduce simple and standardized APIs to make RL in Honor of Kings straightforward: the
complex observations and actions are deﬁned in terms of low-resolution grids of features; conﬁgurable
rewards are provided combining factors like the score from the game engine.
• We evaluate RL algorithms under Honor of Kings Arena, providing an extensive set of benchmark-
ing results for future comparison.
• The generality challenges in competitive RL settings are proposed with preliminary experiments
showing that existing RL methods cannot cope well under Honor of Kings Arena.
1https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honor_of_Kings
2

What Honor of Kings Arena isn’t: Honor of Kings Arena currently only supports the 1v1 mode of
Honor of Kings, where there is only one hero in each camp. Though we acknowledge that some game
modes of Honor of Kings (i.e., 3v3 or 5v5 mode where there are multiple heroes in each camp) are
more popular than 1v1 mode, they might complicates the generalization challenge in competitive RL
with the cooperation ability between heroes (which is out of the scope of this paper). The cooperation
ability also makes it hard to evaluate the generalization ability of different models. Thus, Honor of
Kings Arena leaves these 3v3 and 5v5 mode of Honor of Kings out of the current implementation.
2
Motivations and Related Work
The key motivation behind Honor of Kings Arena is to address a variety of needs that existing
environments lack:
Diversity in controlled targets
A unique feature of Honor of Kings Arena is that it has 20 heroes
for the agents to control, where each hero has its unique skills. In most existing open environments
like Google Research Football [13], StarCraft2 AI Arena [17], Blood Bowl [12], MetaWorld [30] and
RLBench [10], the meaning of actions remains the same when the agent controls different target units.
The change of action control between a great number of heroes in Honor of Kings Arena provides
appealing scenarios for testing the generalization ability of the agents. RoboSuite [31] provides seven
different robotic arms across ﬁve single-agent tasks and three cooperative tasks between two arms.
HoK environment differs from Robosuite by providing a large number of competitive settings.
Free and open accessibility
DotA2 shares a similar game setting with Honor of Kings (both are
representative MOBA games with large state/action spaces), which also has multi-agent competition
and coordination, unknown environment model, partially observable environment and diverse target
heroes to control, but the environment in [1] used by OpenAI is not open with only an overview
posted. Other MOBA environments like Derk’s Gym [15] lack free accessibility because of the
requirement of commercial licenses. XLand [20] also focuses on the generalization capability of
agents and supports multi-agent scenarios, but it is not open-source.
Existing Interest
This environment has been used as a testbed for RL in research competitions 2
and many researchers have conducted experiments under the environment of Honor of Kings [3, 4,
11, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 27].Though some of them veriﬁed the feasibility of reinforcement learning in
tackling the game [11, 26, 28, 29], they are more focused on methodological novelty in planning, tree-
searching, etc. Unlike these papers, this paper focuses on making the environment open-accessible
and providing benchmarking results, which could serve as a reference and foundation for future
research. Moreover, this paper showed the weaknesses of former methods in lacking of model
generalization across multiple heroes.
3
Honor of Kings Arena Environment
Honor of Kings Arena is open-sourced under Apache License V2.0 and accessible to all indi-
viduals for any non-commercial activity. The encrypted game engine and game replay tools fol-
lows Tencent’s Hornor of Kings AI And Machine Learning License 3 and can be downloaded
from: https://aiarena.tencent.com/hok/download. The code for agent training and eval-
uation is built with ofﬁcial authorization from Honor of Kings and is available at:
https:
//github.com/tencent-ailab/hok_env. Any non-commercial users are free to download our
game engine and tools after registration.
3.1
Tasks
We use the term "task" to refer to speciﬁc conﬁgurations of an environment (e.g., game setting,
speciﬁc heroes, number of agents, etc.). The general task for agents in Honor of Kings Arena is as
follows: When the match starts, each player controls the hero, sets out from the base, gains gold and
experience by killing or destroying other game units (e.g., enemy heroes, creeps, turrets). The goal is
to destroy the opponent’s turrets and base crystal while protecting its own turrets and base crystal. A
detailed description of the game units and heroes can be found in Appendix B.
2https://aiarena.tencent.com/aiarena/en
3https://github.com/tencent-ailab/hok_env/blob/master/GAMECORE.LICENSE
3

Figure 2: The tasks in Honor of Kings Arena. Each row represents the same target hero with different opponent
heroes. Each column represents different target heroes with the same opponent hero. There are 20 heroes in
Honor of Kings Arena, making 20 × 20 = 400 tasks in total.
Though the general goal is the same across different matches, every match would differentiate from
each other. Before the match starts, each player needs to choose one hero to control, where each hero
has its unique skills, which would have different inﬂuences on the environment. Any changes in the
chosen hero would make the task different. As shown in Figure 2, in the current Honor of Kings
Arena, 20 heroes could be chosen, which makes up 400 tasks in total.
3.2
Agents
Honor of Kings Arena provides recognizable and conﬁgurable observation spaces, action spaces, and
reward functions. In this section, we provide a general description of these functions, whose details
can be found in Appendix.
Observation Space
The observations often carry spatial and status cues and suggest meaningful
actions to perform in a given state. In Honor of Kings Arena, the observation space is designed to
be the same across all heroes, creating the opportunity to generalize across tasks. Speciﬁcally, the
observation space of Honor of Kings Arena consists of ﬁve main components, whose dimensions
depend on the number of heroes in the game (for the full description, please see Appendix D):
HeroStatePublic, which describes the hero’s status; HeroStatePrivate, which includes the speciﬁc
skill information for all the heroes in the game; VecCreeps describing the status of soldiers in the
troops; VecTurrets describing the status of turrets and crystals; VecCampsWholeInfo, which indicates
the period of the match.
Action Space
The native action space of the environment consists of a triplet form, which covers
all the possible actions of the hero hierarchically: 1) which action button to take; 2) who to target,e.g.,
a turret, an enemy hero, or a soldier in the troop; 3) how to act, e.g., the discretized direction to move
and release skills. Note that different heroes have different prohibited skill offsets since they have
different skills.
Reward Information
Honor of Kings has both sparse and dense reward conﬁgurations in ﬁve
categories: farming related, kill-death-assist (KDA) related, damage related, pushing related, and
win-lose related (for the full description, please see Appendix F).
Episode Dynamics
An episode of Honor of Kings Arena task terminates when the crystal of one
camp is pushed down. In practice, there is a time limit in training, though an actual round of Honor of
Kings game has no time limit. The timer is set at the beginning of the episode. The actions in Honor
of Kings Arena are executed every 133ms by default to match with the response time of top-amateur
players, while the action interval is conﬁgurable. The constraints of the game are expressed in system
4

state transitions of the game. For example, the HP of opponent’s crystal will not decrease if the turret
is not destroyed.
4
APIs and Implementation
The RL Environment Class
The class hok1v1, which can be found within the HoK module, deﬁnes
two important functions reset() and step(), for starting a new episode, and for advancing time
given an action, respectively. They both return a quadruple:
• obs: a list of NumPy arrays with the description of the agent’s observation on the environment.
• reward: a list of scalars with the description of the immediate reward from the environment.
• done: a list of boolean values with the description of the game status.
• info: a list of Dict with length of agent number.
Speciﬁcally, each Dict in info describes the game information at current step and includes the
following items:
• observation is a NumPy array including all six components mentioned in Section 3.2.
• legal_action describes current legal sub-actions with 1 NumPy array. The legal sub-actions
incorporates prior knowledge of experienced human players and helps eliminate several unrea-
sonable aspects: 1) skill or attack availability, e.g., the predicted action to release a skill within
Cool Down time shall be eliminated; 2) being controlled by enemy hero skill or equipment
effects; 3) hero-/item-speciﬁc restrictions.
• sub_action_mask is a NumPy array describing dependencies of different Button actions.
• done describes if the current game is over by a scalar value of 0 or 1.
• frame_no is the frame number of next state.
• reward is current reward value.
• game_id, player_id are string identifying the game and the run time ID of the current hero.
• req_pb is a string identifying protobuf information of the current hero.
We provide an example for using our environment in Listing 1.
Technical Implementation and Performance
The Honor of Kings Arena Engine is written in
highly optimized C++ code, allowing it to be run on commodity machines both with GPU and
without GPU-based rendering enabled. This allows it to obtain a performance of approximately 4.34
million samples (around 600 trajectories) per hour on a single 10-core machine that operates ten
concurrent environments (see the subﬁgure in Figure 3). Furthermore, our infrastructure with sampler,
memory pool and learner can easily scale over a cluster of machines. With 200 machines running in
total 2000 concurrent environments, our training infrastructure allows over 800 million samples per
hour.
5

1 from hok import
HoK1v1
2
3 # load
environment
4 env = HoK1v1.load_game(game_config)
5
6 # init
agents
7 agents = []
8 for i in range(env.num_agents):
9
agents.append(Agent(agent_config))
10
11 # start an episode
12 obs , _, _, info
= env.reset ()
13 total_reward = 0.0
14 done = False
15 while not done:
16
actions = []
17
for i in range(env.num_agents):
18
action = agents[i]. process(obs[i])
19
actions.append(action)
20
done = done or info[i][’done ’]
21
obs , reward , done , info = env.step(actions)
Listing 1: Python example
Figure 3: Number of steps per hour versus number of concurrent environments for the Honor of Kings Arena
on a cluster of 10-core Intel Xeon Platinum 8255C CPUs with 2.50GHz. Our infrastructure could generate
approximately 4.34 million samples per hour on a single 10-core machine, and could easily scale to larger
concurrent environments.
Competition and Evaluation Mechanism
Similar to existing game environments, the agent has
to interact with the environment and maximize its episodic reward by sequentially choosing suitable
actions based on observations of the environment. The Honor of Kings Arena supports the competition
across different kinds of agents: (1) Rule-based agents. A behavior-tree AI (BT) is integrated into
Honor of Kings and provided with the environment. The BT uses rules that are provided by the game
developers and handcrafted differently across different heroes to match the performance of a human
player. 4 (2) Trained agents. The ﬂexibility on competing against trained agents allows self-play
schemes for training RL methods. All the baseline AIs, including the BT and trained models at
different levels, are available. As we will show in Section 6, these different levels of models are
important indicators for researchers to evaluate the performances from different methods.
5
Validation
The Honor of Kings Arena is an efﬁcient and ﬂexible learning environment. In order to validate the
usefulness of Honor of Kings Arena, we conduct the evaluation with both heroes as Diaochan for
training and implemented two baseline methods. In this scenario, the player needs to destroy one
4In Honor of Kings game, human players’ levels are ranked as Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum, Diamond,
Heavenly, King, and High King (from low to high). BT is hand authored by the game designers to match the
Gold level, which can be treated as an entry level for humans in this paper.
6

turret before pushing down the opponent’s crystal. In the following experiments, unless speciﬁed, we
keep the heroes to control, the order of item purchasing, and skill upgrading the same for both camps
to focus on learning tactics of the agents.
Baselines
In the following experiments, we provide our validation results for existing deep re-
inforcement learning algorithms, including PPO [18] and Ape-X DQN [9]. We acknowledge that
establishing baselines for reinforcement learning problems and algorithms could be notoriously
difﬁcult, therefore we refer directly to those that proved effective under the Honor of Kings environ-
ment [29, 25]. For a given algorithm, we ran experiments with similar network architecture, set of
hyperparameters, and training conﬁguration as described in the original papers.
Feasibility under different resources
The ﬁrst thing we need to validate is whether Honor of
Kings Arena is able to support the training of RL under feasible computing resources. We run the
policy over different CPU cores in parallel via self-play with mirrored policies to generate samples.
We train the PPO network on one NVIDIA Tesla V100 SXM2 GPU. The results are summarized
in Table 1. Table 1 shows that the convergence time with limited resources is less than 7 hours. As
the number of CPUs for data collection increases, the training time to beat BT decreases.We also
conducted experiments on multiple GPUs and found that it was the number of CPUs other than GPUs
that impedes the training time to beat BT. With more CPU, the environment could generate more
training samples, while with more GPU, the training sample could consume more frequently. When
the consumption frequency, i.e., number of times per sample used for training, is the same under
different #CP Us
#GP Us, the training time to beat BT remains approximately the same.
Table 1: Training time to beat BT under different computing resources (standard deviation, each experiment
run 3 times). With limited CPU cores, the self-play agent is able to beat BT using around 6 hours, and the time
using additional CPU cores over 512 becomes about one hour.
CPU Cores
Training hours
Consumption freq.
128
6.16±0.009
23.80 ±0.87
256
1.67±0.021
10.60±0.64
512
1.08±0.025
5.21±0.07
1204
0.90±0.06
2.69±0.03
2048
0.89±0.06
1.30±0.008
Performance of Different Models
We provide experimental results for both PPO [29] and
DQN [25] for the Honor of Kings Arena in Figure 4. The experimental results indicate that the Honor
of Kings Arena provides challenges in the choice of RL methods toward a stronger AI, with 2000M
samples used for the model of PPO to beat the BT. Although both PPO and DQN can beat BT within
3000M samples, they do not achieve the same ﬁnal performance in terms of reward.
0
1000
2000
3000
Samples (million)
50
0
50
reward
DQN
PPO
0
500
1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500
Samples (million)
0
10
20
30
hurt
DQN
PPO
0
1000
2000
3000
Samples (million)
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
win
DQN
PPO
(a) Reward
(b) Hurt per frame
(c) Win rate
Figure 4: Different evaluation metrics on the Honor of Kings Arena for DQN and PPO w.r.t. the number of
training samples. Error bars represent standard deviation. PPO performs better than DQN.
Performance against BT
We present preliminary results showing the possibility of using RL to
achieve human-level performance. We run experiments with over 1024 CPU cores and one GPU core
via self-play. The Elo score [5] is used to evaluate the relative performance of one model among
all the models. From Figure 5, we can see that PPO can beat BT (indicating the level of a normal
human), within two hours and takes about 10 hours to converge.
6
Research Direction: Generalization Challenge in Competitive RL
In Honor of Kings Arena, players could control different heroes against different opponents, and the
environment is also changed by the hero’s actions. A policy with good transferability is expected to
perform stably against different opponents. We conducted two experiments with PPO algorithm to
showcase the transferability challenge.
7

Figure 5: The Elo score of models under different training times. Blue lines shows the Elo score for BT. The
self-play trained PPO could beat BT in about 1 hour, and converge after 10 hours.
Generalization Challenge across Opponents
In the ﬁrst experiment, the policy is trained under
the task of "Diaochan (RL) vs. Diaochan (BT)", and tested under the tasks of "Diaochan (RL) vs.
different opponent heroes (BT)" for 98 rounds of matches. In these tasks, the RL model is only
used to control Diaochan, and its opponents are changed as different tasks. The results are shown
in Figure 6. The model trained on Diaochan could beat the opponent Diaochan controlled by BT
(90% winning rate) since the target to control during testing and training is the same. However, when
the opponent hero changes, the performance of the same trained policy drops dramatically, as the
change of opponent hero differs the testing setting from the training setting, indicating the lack of
transferability of the policy learned by existing methods.
Figure 6: Win rate of a well-trained model from task "Diaochan (RL) vs. Diaochan (BT)" transferred to tasks
"Diaochan (RL) vs. different opponent heroes (BT)". The agent is trained to control Diaochan against Diaochan
controlled by BT, and tested to control Diaochan against different heroes controlled by BT. Red: Directly
transferring the model to control Diaochan and compete with different opponent heroes. Green: Multi-task
training on ﬁve tasks "Diaochan (RL) vs. Diaochan/Buzhihuowu/Luna/Ganjiangmoye/Zhongkui (BT)" and
testing the model on twenty tasks. Blue: Distilling the model trained from ﬁve tasks "Diaochan (RL) vs.
Diaochan/Buzhihuowu/Luna/Ganjiangmoye/Zhongkui (BT)" and testing the model on twenty tasks. The policy
trained on Diaochan could not generalize to all tasks with different opponent heroes. Blue rectangles highlights
the ﬁve tasks used in multi-task and distillation. The error bars indicate the standard deviation under ﬁve seeds.
Generalization Challenge across Targets
In the second experiment, the policy is trained under
the task of "Diaochan (RL) vs. Diaochan (BT)", and tested under the task of "different target heroes
(RL) vs. Diaochan (BT)" for 98 rounds of matches. In these tasks, the RL model is used to control
different heroes, but their opponents remains the same as Diaochan. The results are shown in Figure 7.
When the target changes from Diaochan to other heroes, the performance of the same trained policy
drops dramatically, as the change of target heroes differs the action meaning from the Diaochan’s
action in the training setting.
Remedies: Multi-task and Distillation
A possible ﬁx to enhance transferability in RL policies is
to do multi-task training, i.e., adding multiple testing settings during training, and forcing the training
setting the same as the testing. We conducted an additional experiment to show that these methods
show improvements on certain tasks. For multi-task models, we train the model with ﬁve tasks
"Diaochan (RL) vs. Diaochan/Buzhihuowu/Luna/Ganjiangmoye/Zhongkui", and test it in twenty
tasks. The results are shown in both Figure 6 and Figure 7. We can see that multi-task training
improves the performance in all the test tasks.
Another possible enhancement for transferability is to distill one model from multiple models. We
use the student-driven policy distillation that is proposed in [6]. We conducted an experiment to show
that this method could achieve similar improvements to multi-task training over directly transferring
8

Figure 7: Win rate of a well-trained model from task "Diaochan (RL) vs. Diaochan (BT)" transferred to tasks
"Different target heroes (RL) vs. Diaochan (BT)". The agent is trained to control Diaochan against Diaochan
controlled by BT, and tested to control different heroes against Diaochan controlled by BT. Red: Directly
transferring the model to control Diaochan and compete with different opponent heroes. Green: Multi-task
training on ﬁve tasks "Diaochan/Buzhihuowu/Luna/Ganjiangmoye/Zhongkui (RL) vs. Diaochan (BT)" and
testing the model on twenty tasks. Blue: Distilling the model trained from ﬁve tasks "Diaochan/Buzhihuowu/Lu-
na/Ganjiangmoye/Zhongkui (RL) vs. Diaochan (BT)" and testing the model on twenty tasks. The policy trained
on Diaochan could not generalize to all tasks with different target heroes. Blue rectangles highlights the ﬁve
tasks used in multi-task and distillation. The error bars indicate the standard deviation under ﬁve seeds.
models. In both Figure 6 and Figure 7, the model is distilled from ﬁve models trained on ﬁve different
tasks and tested in twenty tasks. We can see that the distillation improves the performance in all the
test tasks.
In the experiments above, we only chose the task "Diaochan vs. Diaochan" as the primary training
task. However, other feasible training tasks, such as "Buzhihuowu vs. Buzhihuowu", are reasonable
options. We chose 5 different heroes as the primary training tasks and test generalization across both
opponents and targets with direct transfer in Appendix H.
Multi-level Models for Evaluation
Although multi-task and distillation could improve the gen-
eralization performance on many tasks, we also noticed that for certain tasks like opponent heroes
changed to Peiqinhu/Shangguanwaner in Figure 6, or target heroes changed to Peiqinhu/Shangguan-
waner in Figure 7, the winning rate for the Diaochan model is constantly zero. This makes it hard to
evaluate the performance of different techniques for generalization.
Similarly, we noticed that both multi-task and distallation achieves near 100% winning rate in tasks
like opponent heroes changed to Buzhihuowu etc in Figure 6, or target heroes changed to Buzhihuowu
etc in Figure 7. To help researchers better evaluate their models, we also provided different levels of
models for different heroes other than BT. One example of different levels of Buzhihuowu as the
opponents for Diaochan is shown in Figure 8. If we only provide the level-3 model of Buzhihuowu,
the winning rate would be tricky and hard to tell the actual performance of trained Diaochan model
in different training hours.
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
2.00
Training Hours
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Winning Rate
level1
level2
level3
Figure 8: Winning rate of an RL agent for Diaochan to beat an opponent hero Buzhihuowu at different levels.
9

7
Conclusion and Future Work
The Honor of Kings Arena is a starting place for the design and performance comparison of com-
petitive reinforcement learning algorithms with generalization necessity across different tasks. The
conﬁgurable state and reward functions allow for easy-to-use suite-wide performance measures
and explorations. The results presented in this paper constitute baselines using well-performing
implementations of these algorithms.
We are excited to share the Honor of Kings Arena with the broader community and hope that it will
be helpful. We look forward to the diverse research the environment may enable and integrating
community contributions in future releases. In the future, we plan to optimize the deployment of our
environment across different platforms. Meanwhile, we will also organize more competitions based
on Honor of Kings Arena and provide our computing resources to contestants.
Acknowledgement
The SJTU team is partially supported by “New Generation of AI 2030” Major Project
(2018AAA0100900) and National Natural Science Foundation of China (62076161). The author
Jingxiao Chen is supported by Wu Wen Jun Honorary Doctoral Scholarship, AI Institute, Shanghai
Jiao Tong University.
References
[1] Christopher Berner, Greg Brockman, et al. Dota 2 with large scale deep reinforcement learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.06680, 2019.
[2] Michael Bowling, Neil Burch, Michael Johanson, and Oskari Tammelin. Heads-up limit
hold’em poker is solved. Science, 347(6218):145–149, 2015.
[3] Sheng Chen, Menghui Zhu, Deheng Ye, Weinan Zhang, Qiang Fu, and Wei Yang. Which
heroes to pick learning to draft in moba games with neural networks and tree search. IEEE
Transactions on Games, 2021.
[4] Ziqiang Cheng, Yang Yang, Chenhao Tan, Denny Cheng, Alex Cheng, and Yueting Zhuang.
What makes a good team? a large-scale study on the effect of team composition in honor of
kings. In The World Wide Web Conference, pages 2666–2672, 2019.
[5] Rémi Coulom. Whole-history rating: A bayesian rating system for players of time-varying
strength. In International Conference on Computers and Games. Springer, 2008.
[6] Wojciech M Czarnecki, Razvan Pascanu, Simon Osindero, Siddhant Jayakumar, Grzegorz
Swirszcz, and Max Jaderberg. Distilling policy distillation. In The 22nd International Confer-
ence on Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Statistics, pages 1331–1340. PMLR, 2019.
[7] William H Guss, Brandon Houghton, et al. Minerl: A large-scale dataset of minecraft demon-
strations. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.13440, 2019.
[8] Tuomas Haarnoja, Aurick Zhou, et al. Soft actor-critic algorithms and applications. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1812.05905, 2018.
[9] Dan Horgan, John Quan, David Budden, Gabriel Barth-Maron, Matteo Hessel, Hado van Hasselt,
and David Silver. Distributed prioritized experience replay. In 6th International Conference on
Learning Representations, ICLR, 2018.
[10] Stephen James, Zicong Ma, David Rovick Arrojo, and Andrew J Davison. Rlbench: The
robot learning benchmark & learning environment. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters,
5(2):3019–3026, 2020.
[11] Daniel Jiang, Emmanuel Ekwedike, and Han Liu. Feedback-based tree search for reinforcement
learning. In ICML. PMLR, 2018.
[12] Niels Justesen, Lasse Møller Uth, et al. Blood bowl: A new board game challenge and
competition for ai. In 2019 IEEE CoG. IEEE, 2019.
[13] Karol Kurach, Anton Raichuk, et al. Google research football: A novel reinforcement learning
environment. In AAAI, 2020.
10

[14] Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, et al. Playing atari with deep reinforcement learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.5602, 2013.
[15] John Fredrik Wilhelm Norén. Derk gym environment. https://gym.derkgame.com, 2020.
[16] Xinlei Pan, Yurong You, Ziyan Wang, and Cewu Lu. Virtual to real reinforcement learning for
autonomous driving. arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.03952, 2017.
[17] Mikayel Samvelyan, Tabish Rashid, et al. The starcraft multi-agent challenge. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1902.04043, 2019.
[18] John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal
policy optimization algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347, 2017.
[19] David Silver, Julian Schrittwieser, et al. Mastering the game of go without human knowledge.
Nature, 2017.
[20] Open Ended Learning Team, Adam Stooke, Anuj Mahajan, Catarina Barros, Charlie Deck,
Jakob Bauer, Jakub Sygnowski, Maja Trebacz, Max Jaderberg, Michael Mathieu, et al. Open-
ended learning leads to generally capable agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.12808, 2021.
[21] Tencent Technology. Honor of kings dau overpass 100 million. https://pvp.qq.com/
web201706/newsdetail.shtml?tid=488335, 2021. Accessed: 2021-03-29.
[22] Gerald Tesauro. Td-gammon, a self-teaching backgammon program, achieves master-level play.
Neural computation, 6(2):215–219, 1994.
[23] Oriol Vinyals, Igor Babuschkin, et al. Grandmaster level in starcraft ii using multi-agent
reinforcement learning. Nature, 2019.
[24] Li Wang, Zixun Sun, Wentao Yao, Hui Zhan, and Chengwei Zhu. Unsupervised multi-stream
highlight detection for the game" honor of kings". arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.06189, 2019.
[25] Hua Wei, Deheng Ye, Zhao Liu, et al. Boosting ofﬂine reinforcement learning with residual
generative modeling. In IJCAI 2021, 2021.
[26] Bin Wu. Hierarchical macro strategy model for moba game ai. In AAAI, 2019.
[27] Deheng Ye, Guibin Chen, et al. Supervised learning achieves human-level performance in moba
games: A case study of honor of kings. IEEE TNNLS, 2020.
[28] Deheng Ye, Guibin Chen, Wen Zhang, et al. Towards playing full MOBA games with deep
reinforcement learning. In NeurIPS 2020, 2020.
[29] Deheng Ye, Zhao Liu, et al. Mastering complex control in moba games with deep reinforcement
learning. In AAAI, 2020.
[30] Tianhe Yu, Deirdre Quillen, Zhanpeng He, Ryan Julian, Karol Hausman, Chelsea Finn, and
Sergey Levine. Meta-world: A benchmark and evaluation for multi-task and meta reinforcement
learning. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 1094–1100. PMLR, 2020.
[31] Yuke Zhu, Josiah Wong, Ajay Mandlekar, and Roberto Martín-Martín. robosuite: A modular
simulation framework and benchmark for robot learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.12293,
2020.
11

A
License and Documentations
Honor of Kings Arena is open-sourced under Apache License V2.0. The code for agent training
and evaluation is built with ofﬁcial authorization from Honor of Kings and is available at: https:
//github.com/tencent-ailab/hok_env, containing the game engine and the afﬁliated code for
agent training and evaluation. The encrypted game engine and game replay tools can be downloaded
from: https://aiarena.tencent.com/hok/download. All experiments can be reproduced from
the source code, which includes all hyper-parameters and conﬁguration. Honor of Kings Arena is
authorized by the game developers of Honor of Kings and the authors will bear all responsibility in
case of violation of rights, etc., ensure access to the data and provide the necessary maintenance. We
also provide the detailed documentations for Honor of Kings Arena and Honor of Kings in this link:
https://aiarena.tencent.com/hok/doc/, including the following:
• Quick start of Honor of Kings Arena
– Installation
– First agent
– Evaluation
• Description of Honor of Kings Arena
– Game Description of Honor of Kings
– Observation space
– Action space
– Reward
• Game Description of Honor of Kings
• Honor of Kings Arena package API Reference
B
Basic Units
Hero
Heroes are player-controlled units that can move around and have abilities to release various
attacking and healing skills. There are many heroes with different attributes, skills and tactics in
the full game settings for Honor of Kings. Each player can choose one hero to control and team up
with others as a lineup of heroes. For more information on hero skills, please refer to the ofﬁcial
website of Honor of Kings: https://pvp.qq.com/m/m201706/heroList.shtml. As is shown
in Figure 9, Honor of Kings Arena now supports 20 heroes, because these 20 heroes are sufﬁcient for
testing the generalization ability. We will support more heroes in the future.
Figure 9: Subset of the Honor of Kings heroes. There are six general types of heroes and each hero has a
speciﬁc set of hero attributes and skills. Red rectangles highlight the heroes provided in current Honor of Kings
Arena.
Creep
Creeps are a small group of computer-controlled creatures that periodically travel along the
predeﬁned lane to attack the opponent units.
Turret
Turrets, i.e., defensive buildings, are designed to attack any opponent units moving into
their sight area.
12

Crystal
The crystal, located in the base of each player, can attack opponent units around their sight
area with higher damages than turrets. The ﬁnal victory condition is to push down the enemy’s crystal.
And the opponent units cannot cause damage to the base towers without destroying the turrets.
C
Hero Details
C.1
Basic Attributes
The basic attributes are what every hero has: health point (HP) volume and magical points (MP)
volume, attack, defense, resistance, etc.
Table 2: Basic attributes of a hero
Maximum HP
Maximum MP
Physical attack
Magical attack
Physical bloodsucking
Magical bloodsucking
Physical defense
Magical defense
Physical penetration
Magical penetration
HP regeneration speed
MP regeneration speed
Attack speed
Cool-down time
Bonus attack chance
Resilience
Attack range
Movement speed
Among all the basic attributes, HP and MP are essential for the states of the hero, where the hero
would die when HP runs out and the hero would not be able to release magical skills if MP runs out.
Defense and attack exist in pairs. There are three types of attacks: physical damage, magic damage,
and true damage. Among them, physical defense is only effective for physical damage, magical
defense is only effective for magical damage, and true damage is effective regardless of physical and
magical defense.
Figure 10: Important basic attributes of the hero like HP and MP are shown in the UI of Honor of Kings,
together with the state of hero skills.
C.2
Skills
General skills
General skills are independent skills players need to choose according to their hero
type before the game starts. The general skill does not require any consumption of experiences or
gold. Once used by the hero, it will be available only after a certain cooling-down time.
Speciﬁc hero skills
Each hero has a speciﬁc set of hero skills, which is different from all other
heroes. Each skill has different levels, which can be upgraded with experiences from killing or
clearing opponent units. It usually consumes MP to release speciﬁc hero skills.
13

C.3
Hero Types
Generally, there are six types of heroes with different playing strategies, including:
• Tank. Tank-type heroes have high blood and defense, and are heroes with strong survivability
and average damage ability. They usually occupy the front row position in team battles, resist the
damages from enemies.
• Warrior. Warrior-type heroes have balanced offensive and defensive capabilities. They usually
stand behind tank heroes in team battles, take a small amount of enemy damage, ﬁght in the enemy
lineup, and sometimes act as a vanguard in the absence of tank heroes and take a lot of damage.
• Assassin. Assassin-type heroes are heroes with weak survivability, but extremely explosive damage
capabilities. In a team battle, the assassin can go to the back of the enemy lineup and ﬁnd the right
time for a set of skills to kill the enemy heroes with low blood.
• Mage. Mage-type heroes are heroes with weak survivability, but high magical damage and control
skills. They usually occupy the back-row position in the team battle and try to control the enemy
heroes.
• Marksman. Marksman-type heroes are heroes with extremely high remote physical damage
capabilities and control skills. In team battles, Marksman can use their remote damage advantage
to stand in the back row.
• Support. Support heroes are heroes with mediocre survivability and output ability. They rely on
powerful skills to increase the status of teammates and control enemy heroes.
C.4
Items
In Honor of Kings, heroes can not only upgrade to higher-level skills with experiences but also can
purchase items with golds. Each hero is allowed to possess up to six items. The types of items in
Honor of Kings are various and complex. When choosing items, the players need to decide which
items to buy, keep and sell to strengthen the hero’s characteristics. For example, tank-type heroes
might need shields to enhance defense, warriors and mages might need to enhance their damage, etc.
However, the choices of items are also inﬂuenced by the opponents and their items during different
phases of the game. For example, Suppose the opponent is a mage that relies on magical attacks. In
that case, the player can choose magical resistance items, making it difﬁcult for the opponent to do
more magical damage.
D
State Vector
Users can customize and redeﬁne their own observations from the returned ‘info’ from ‘env.step()’,
while we provide a basic set of observations here. The observation space of Honor of Kings Arena
consists of ﬁve main components, whose dimensions depend on the number of heroes in the game: The
most notable component is HeroStatePublic, which describes the hero’s status, including whether
it’s alive, its ID, its health points (HP), and its skill status, and its skill related information, etc.
HeroStatePrivate includes the speciﬁc kill information for all the heroes in the game. VecCreeps
describes the status of soldiers in the troops, including their locations, HPs, etc. VecTurrets describes
the status of turrets and crystals. It should be noted that the states of enemy units, even if they’re
invisible to the ego camp, are also available, which could be helpful for algorithms that learn from
hindsight and should be masked out during policy execution. The last part of the observation space is
VecCampsWholeInfo, which indicates the period of the match. Their dimensions and descriptions can
be found in Table 3. The meanings of every dimension in the state space can be found in the link
provided in Documentation of Section A.
E
Action Space
The native action space of the environment consists of a triplet form, i.e., the action button, the
movement offset over the x-axis and y-axis, the skill offset over the x-axis and y-axis, and the target
game unit. It covers all the possible actions of the hero hierarchically: 1) what action button to
take; 2) who to target, e.g., a turret, an enemy hero, or a soldier in the troop; 3) how to act, e.g., the
14

Table 3: State information
Feature Class
Field
Description
Dimension
HeroStatePublic
Hero Status
HP, MP, level, exp, position, skills, etc
49 * 2
Hero skills
Speciﬁc attributes of hero skills, like buff mark
layers, etc
53 * 2
HeroStatePrivate
Diaochan-related
skill position and buffs
11
Luna-related
phases and status of normal attack
7
Jvyoujing-related
strengthened normal attack related
9
Luban-related
attack stage
5
VecCreeps
Status
HP, camp, attack range, etc.
12 * 4
Position
Absolute and relative coordinates, distance
6 * 4
VecTurrets
Status
Hp, camp, attack range, etc.
12 * 4
Position
Absolute and relative coordinates, distance
6 * 4
VecCampsWholeInfo
Current Period
Divide game time into 5 periods
5
Total
Sum
All features
491
discretized direction to move and release skills. As illustrated in Figure 11, the action buttons include
move, attack, skill releasing, etc. The details of the action space, including the types and meanings of
every dimension, can be found in Table 4.
Figure 11: The action space is composed of action button, offsets and targets.
F
Reward Information
Users can customize and redeﬁne their own rewards (including the termination rewards) from the
returned ‘info’ from ‘env.step()’, while we provide a basic set of rewards here. Honor of Kings has
both sparse and dense reward conﬁgurations in ﬁve categories: 1) Farming related: the amount of
gold and experience, and the penalty of not acting, which are dense reward signals; 2) KDA related:
the number of kill, death and assist, and the last hit to enemy units, which are sparse reward signals;
3) Damage related: a dense reward - the number of health point, and a sparse reward - the amount of
attack to enemy hero; 4) Pushing related: the amount of attack to enemy turrets and crystal, which are
dense rewards; 5) Win/lose related: destroy the enemy home base, which are sparse reward signals
received at the end of the game.
It is possible that only using the dense reward version of the Honor of Kings will likely resemble the
sparsity, which is often seen in previously sparse rewarding benchmarks. Given the sparse-reward
nature of this task, we encourage researchers to develop novel intrinsic reward-based systems, such
as curiosity, empowerment, or other signals to augment the external reward signal provided by the
environment.
15

Table 4: Action Space description
Action Class
Type
Description
Dimension
Button
None
No action
1
Move
Move hero
1
Normal Attack
Release normal attack
1
Skill 1
Release skill 1st
1
Skill 2
Release skill 2nd
1
Skill 3
Release skill 3rd
1
Heal Skill
Release heal skill
1
Summoner Skill
Release summoner skill
1
Recall
Start channeling and return to home crystal
after a few seconds if not interrupted
1
Skill 4
Release skill 4th (Only valid for certain heroes)
1
Equipment Skill
Release skill provided by certain equipment
1
Move
Move X
Move direction along X-axis
16
Move Z
Move direction along Z-axis
16
Skill
Skill X
Skill direction along X-axis
16
Skill Z
Skill direction along Z-axis
16
Target
None
Empty target
1
Self
Self player
1
Enemy
Enemy player
1
Soldier
4 Nearest soldiers
4
Tower
Nearest tower
1
Table 5: Reward Design
Reward
Weight
Type
Description
hp_point
2.0
dense
the rate of health point of hero
tower_hp_point
10.0
dense
the rate of health point of tower
money (gold)
0.006
dense
the total gold gained
ep_rate
0.75
dense
the rate of mana point
death
-1.0
sparse
being killed
kill
-0.6
sparse
killing an enemy hero
exp
0.006
dense
the experience gained
G
Hyperparameters
The network structure is directly adopted from [29] whose implementation can be found
in
our
code
https://github.com/tencent-ailab/hok_env/blob/main/code/common/
algorithm.py. We use Adam optimizer with initial learning rate 0.0001. For PPO, the two
clipping hyperparameters ϵ and c are set as 0.2 and 3, respectively. The discount factor is set as 0.997.
For the case of Honor of Kings, this discount is valuing future rewards with a half-life of about 46
seconds. We set λ = 0.95 in GAE to reduce the variance caused by delayed effects. For DQN, the
discount factor of tagert Q-network is set as 0.98.
H
Additional Experiments
The Honor of Kings Arena provides scenarios and ﬂexible APIs to train different reinforcement
learning models. When training deep RL models, it often requires crafting designs like network
structure and loss function based on different problems. In the following sections, if not speciﬁed, we
will use Diaochan vs. Diaochan as our task in the experiment.
H.1
Dual clip in PPO
To tackle the dramatic shift between different rounds of data in off-policy reinforcement learning,
one common design to apply clipping, on either policy entropy or trajectory importance ratios [18].
16

In [28], it utilized a dual-clip PPO to support large-scale distributed training. And we investigate the
inﬂuences of this design and found out the model with dual clip is slightly better than the original
PPO model, as is shown in Figure 12.
(a) Reward
(b) Hurt per frame
(c) Win rate
Figure 12: Different evaluation metrics on the Honor of Kings Arena 1v1 mode for the ablation study on
dual-clip w.r.t. the number of training samples. Error bars represent standard deviation.
H.2
Legal action mask
To improve the training efﬁciency and incorporate the prior knowledge of human players, especially
for RL problems with large action spaces. In Honor of Kings Arena, it provides legal action
information to help eliminate unreasonable actions for reference, where researchers can design
their own legal actions based on their knowledge. We can use the legal action information to mask
unreasonable actions out during the training process. The experiment results is shown in Figure 13.
As expected, without legal action, the agent quickly converges to a local optimum under the large
action space, and it is critical to use action mask for better performances.
(a) Reward
(b) Hurt per frame
c) Win rate
Figure 13: Different evaluation metrics on the Honor of Kings Arena 1v1 mode for the ablation study on legal
action mask. Error bars represent standard deviation.
H.3
LSTM for partial observation
To tackle the challenge from the partially observable environment, researchers often utilize LSTMs
in the model network. In Honor of Kings Arena, the action sequences of a hero, also called skill
combos, are critical to creating severe and instant damage and should be incorporated with temporal
information. We compared the models w/wo LSTMs, and the results are shown in Figure 14. As
expected, the performance of models with LSTMs performs better than the model without LSTMs.
H.4
Evaluation under Elo
When a policy is trained against a ﬁxed opponent, it may exploit its particular weaknesses and may
not generalize well to other adversaries. We conducted an experiment to showcase this in which a
ﬁrst model A was trained against BT. Then, another agent B was trained against a frozen version
of agent A in the same scenario. While B managed to beat A consistently, its performance against
built-in AI was not as good as Model A. The numerical results showing this lack of transitivity across
the agents are presented in Table 6.
To evaluate the ability of different agents, we suggest the necessity of using Elo score. We evaluate
the Elo score for all the models, and the K factor in Elo score calculation is set to 200. As is shown in
Table 6, although Model B can perfectly beat Model A, its Elo score is less than A’s. This is because
because B is trained against a frozen version of A and might overﬁt to A’s weaknesses. The deviation
of the winning rate (0.25) in B vs. BT is much larger than A vs. BT (0.03), which also indicates that
B is worse than it shows in the mean of winning rates (0.91). This shows that Elo score considers the
17

0
1000
2000
3000
Samples (million)
50
0
50
reward
LSTM 16
LSTM 4
Wo. LSTM
0
500
1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500
Samples (million)
0
10
20
30
hurt
LSTM 16
LSTM 4
Wo. LSTM
0
1000
2000
3000
Samples (million)
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
win
LSTM 16
LSTM 4
Wo. LSTM
(a) Reward
(b) Hurt per frame
c) Win rate
Figure 14: Different evaluation metrics on the Honor of Kings Arena 1v1 mode for the ablation study on LSTM
w.r.t. the number of training samples. Error bars represent standard deviation. With LSTMs, the model performs
better against models without LSTMs; as the step size grows, the model performs better.
Table 6: Performances of different agents under the evaluation of winning rate (with standard deviation) and Elo
score. Although B could beat A among all the matches, B’s winning rate is not as good as A’s when competing
withBT. Instead, the Elo scores can reﬂect the relative capability.
Models in matches
Winning rate
Model A vs. BT
0.91±0.03
Model B vs. Model A
1.00±0.00
Model B vs. BT
0.81±0.25
Models
Elo Score
Model A
2372
Model B
1186
BT
0
overall performance of one model against all the models, which is a more comprehensive metric than
measuring the winning rate of one model against another model.
H.5
Tasks on different heroes
In Section 6, we chose the task "Diaochan vs. Diaochan" as the primary training task, while other
feasible training tasks are reasonable options. Here we provide 5 different heroes as the primary
training tasks and test their generalization ability across both opponents and targets with direct
transfer. The results are shown in Figure 15 and Figure 16. The corresponding bar charts are provided
as well in Figure 17 and Figure 18.
18

Figure 15: Generalization across different opponents with models trained from different heroes. Each line
represents a well-trained model trained to control a target hero to compete with the same hero controlled by
BT. Each axis in the plot represents the testing task of different opponent hero to compete with for the same
well-trained model. The value on the axis represents the winning rate under the task. A model trained on Luna
and Buzhihuowu can generalize better to compete with four other heroes controlled by BT.
Figure 16: Generalization across different target heroes with models trained from different heroes. Each line
represents a well-trained model trained to control a target hero to compete with the same hero controlled by
BT. Each axis in the plot represents the testing task of different target hero to control for the same well-trained
model. The value on the axis represents the winning rate under the task. A model trained on Buzhihuowu can
generalize better than models trained on other heroes to control different heroes.
19

Figure 17: Bar charts of Figure 15.
Figure 18: Bar charts of Figure 16.
20
