Minimax Exploiter: A Data Efficient Approach for Competitive
Self-Play
Daniel Bairamian
McGill University
Montreal, Canada
daniel.bairamian@mail.mcgill.ca
Philippe Marcotte
Ubisoft Montreal
Montreal, Canada
philippe.marcotte@ubisoft.com
Joshua Romoff
Ubisoft Montreal
Montreal, Canada
joshua.romoff@ubisoft.com
Gabriel Robert
Ubisoft Montreal
Montreal, Canada
gabriel.robert@ubisoft.com
Derek Nowrouzezahrai
McGill University
Montreal, Canada
derek@cim.mcgill.ca
ABSTRACT
Recent advances in Competitive Self-Play (CSP) have achieved, or
even surpassed, human level performance in complex game en-
vironments such as Dota 2 and StarCraft II using Distributed
Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL). One core compo-
nent of these methods relies on creating a pool of learning agents
– consisting of the Main Agent, past versions of this agent, and
Exploiter Agents – where Exploiter Agents learn counter-strategies
to the Main Agents. A key drawback of these approaches is the
large computational cost and physical time that is required to train
the system, making them impractical to deploy in highly iterative
real-life settings such as video game productions. In this paper,
we propose the Minimax Exploiter, a game theoretic approach to
exploiting Main Agents that leverages knowledge of its opponents,
leading to significant increases in data efficiency. We validate our
approach in a diversity of settings, including simple turn based
games, the arcade learning environment, and For Honor, a mod-
ern video game. The Minimax Exploiter consistently outperforms
strong baselines, demonstrating improved stability and data effi-
ciency, leading to a robust CSP-MARL method that is both flexible
and easy to deploy.
KEYWORDS
Reinforcement Learning, Deep Learning, Competitive Self-Play,
Video Games
ACM Reference Format:
Daniel Bairamian, Philippe Marcotte, Joshua Romoff, Gabriel Robert, and Derek
Nowrouzezahrai. 2024. Minimax Exploiter: A Data Efficient Approach for
Competitive Self-Play. In Proc. of the 23rd International Conference on Au-
tonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems (AAMAS 2024), Auckland, New
Zealand, May 6 – 10, 2024, IFAAMAS, 9 pages.
1
INTRODUCTION
Reinforcement learning (RL) has demonstrated its utility in reliably
solving tasks in static environments, such as with Atari games [7]
and diverse control problems [3]. In competitive environments, how-
ever, choosing an adequate adversary for the RL agent becomes a
Proc. of the 23rd International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems
(AAMAS 2024), N. Alechina, V. Dignum, M. Dastani, J.S. Sichman (eds.), May 6 – 10, 2024,
Auckland, New Zealand. © 2024 International Foundation for Autonomous Agents
and Multiagent Systems (www.ifaamas.org). This work is licenced under the Creative
Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC-BY 4.0) licence.
Figure 1: Our Deep RL agent in the For Honor game: screen-
shot from our testing environment, not from live private
player views.
design problem with important challenges in and of itself. Notably,
choosing too hard of an opponent can limit the ability of an agent
to learn, while choosing too easy of an opponent can lead to sub-
optimal learned agent policies. Recent advances in Starcraft II
[17], Go [13], Dota 2 [2], Gran Turismo [18], Chess and Shogi
[12] have successfully demonstrated human-level performance by
leveraging Competitive Self-Play (CSP) [1]: having an agent play
against itself provides a balance between the two aforementioned
extremes. CSP trains RL agents in a league setup, where a match-
making algorithm pairs different agents against each other based
on a performance metric, such as win-rate or Elo rating [4].
Two main archetypes exist in the league framework: the first
is a Main Agent, whose role is to learn a robust strategy by com-
peting against the league’s opponent pool; the second is a Main
Exploiter, whose role is to train specifically against a single instance
of the Main Agent, with the goal of learning a counter strategy.
Unfortunately, this league training paradigm – often referred to as
Competitive Self-Play Multi Agent Reinforcement Learning (CSP-
MARL) – is extremely expensive to run, despite recent efforts to
improve its efficiency [5, 14]. For example, TLeague [14] trains
a 20 million parameter model in 57 days with roughly 1.3 × 104
CPUs and 144 GPUs, compared to Alphastar’s [17] 139 million
parameter model in 44 days with 5 × 105 CPUs and 3 × 103 GPUs,
all while achieving comparable results. As training prolongs, it
becomes increasingly challenging for exploiters to find counter
strategies, and so convergence times become a training bottleneck
[14].
arXiv:2311.17190v1  [cs.LG]  28 Nov 2023

Crucially, long training times can prevent CSP-MARL from being
consistently used in highly iterative workflows such as video game
development, where the environment dynamics from the RL agents
point of view can change on a daily basis. A constantly changing
environment makes the multi-week (or even multi-month) training
times completely infeasible for many use cases in the development
cycle, such as balancing different classes, or testing design changes
[11].
To this end, we propose an alternative to the standard Exploiter
archetype, we call the Minimax Exploiter, that utilises a game theo-
retic inspired reward function that aims to minimize the maximum
Q-value of its opponent at every step. We show empirically that our
Exploiter converges faster than standard exploiters in a variety of
settings. We first evaluate the efficiency of the Minimax Exploiter
on Tic-Tac-Toe, Connect 4 and Atari Boxing, before stress test-
ing our approach on a modern AAA 1 video game environment,
For Honor, where we deploy a complete league training setup to
evaluate its efficiency.
2
BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
Two main schools of thought exist in recent self-play model free RL
works. The first, popularized by StarCraft and Dota [2, 17], trains
an agent in a league setup against a population of past versions
of itself while incorporating human data to bootstrap training.
In contrast to the league training methodology, game theoretic
approaches such as DeepNash, a recent Stratego-playing agent
[10] (which builds off prior work [6]) introduce a Regularized Nash
Dynamics algorithm (R-NaD) that seeks a Nash Equilibrium via
policy regularization [9]. Motivated by the former work’s ability to
solve complex modern video games, we build atop league training
in our approach.
When training an agent in a league setup, a popular architec-
ture used by Alphastar [17] trains three unique agent archetypes.
The first archetype – the Main Agent – is trained using prioritized
fictitious self-play (PFSP), sampling opponents for the Main Agent
from an opponent pool that mainly consists of past versions of the
agent itself (and proportional to their associated win-rates). The
motivation is to promote sampling the toughest opponents to force
the Main Agent to always improve. The second archetype – the
Main Exploiter – is trained solely against the latest version of the
Main Agent. While the Main Agent learns a diversity of strategies,
the Main Exploiter seeks only to learn those strategies that defeat
(or weaken, exploit) the Main Agent. Once converged, the Main Ex-
ploiter is added to the opponent pool used to train the next iteration
of the Main Agent (again, using PFSP), promoting the development
of strategies which correct any weaknesses found earlier by the
Main Exploiter. The final archetype – the League Exploiter – is
also trained using PFSP, but against the entire history of the league,
rather than just its latest iteration of the Main Agent. Just like the
Main Exploiter, their goal is to find weaknesses, however rather
than being targeted specifically to the Main Agent, they are targeted
to the entire league.
Such frameworks generally consists of multiple different compo-
nents, which work in tandem to assure a functioning league. The
1AAA is an informal rating given to games with high budgets.
Action to evaluate: X
Evaluation: Winning for O
Evaluation: Losing for X
Figure 2: Tic-Tac-Toe expert negative evaluation is propa-
gated back to the agent and used as a reward proxy.
actors are responsible for interacting with the environment, gen-
erating experience data. The learners, are responsible for training
the networks given the experience data. The model pool consoli-
dates all different networks that are used in the league, and finally
the league manager, coordinates the different modules together, as
well as samples the opponents for the Main Agent, through its sub-
module called the game manager. Tencent’s TLeague framework
[5, 14], uses these modules, as well as additional ones, such as their
hyperparameter manager and inference server, to further optimize
this process.
In complex environments, e.g., StarCraft, imitation learning
with expert human data is often used to bootstrap agent policy
learning. In Alphastar, human data (roughly 106 game replays)
is first clustered by strategy type and encoded into a policy net-
work 𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡,𝑧) parameterized by a player’s build order 𝑧, i.e., the
first 20 builds and units constructed by the player. This approach
both initializes agents with a strong bootstrap model and promotes
strategy diversity in the league.
3
MOTIVATING EXAMPLE – TIC-TAC-TOE
We motivate our approach with a simple zero-sum game, Tic-Tac-
Toe. The rules of the game are simple, players take alternating turns
placing either an X (player 1) or and O (player 2) on a 3 × 3 grid.
A game ends when either one player wins by placing three of its
symbols in sequence (horizontally, vertically, or diagonally), or a
draw is reached.
Consider playing against an optimal Tic-Tac-Toe player, which
can be easily and efficiently obtained by the Minimax algorithm
given the game’s small game tree. Training an RL agent against
the optimal Minimax player is realizable without any changes to
classic RL algorithms: with fewer than 39 game states2, nine possible
actions, and a simple reward of +1 if you win, −1 if you lose, and 0
if you draw.
This simple reward function is, however, sub-optimal. For ex-
ample, the agent would only know that their initial move is losing
upon episode termination, with this information propagating back
to the original action that lead to the loss. Noting that the Minimax
evaluation of the position – being exact – altogether replaces the
need for a reward function, we could use the Minimax evaluation
directly to estimate the value of an action. Figure 2 diagrams this
idea of using the expert evaluation of a game as a reward proxy.
In complex games with large (or continuous) state and/or action
spaces, a Minimax evaluation is not tractable nor is it common
2A 3 × 3 grid of {X, O, empty} cells, less invalid configurations.

to have access to any such oracle evaluation. In the case of self-
play, however, another viable option arises: it is usually both cheap
and meaningful to evaluate an action from the perspective of your
opponent. Specifically, when training an Exploiter (tasked with
defeating a single, frozen instance of the Main Agent), it seems
natural to rely on the Main Agent’s evaluation of the position to
aid in the Exploiter’s training. We delve deeper into this idea before
outlining our approach, below.
4
APPROACH
Our approach aims at speeding up the training of Exploiter Agents
in competitive self-play, while preserving the optimal policy of
the Main Agent. We treat two player zero-sum games, proposing a
methodology to accelerate Exploiter training when it is possible to
gain access to the Main Agent’s action evaluation, such as through
its Q-function, Value function, or any other appropriate proxy. Our
core principle consists of propagating the negative evaluation of
the Main Agent’s state to the Exploiter’s state-action pair that leads
to that state (see Figure 2). While any RL algorithm could, in theory,
eventually converge to the same result, we demonstrate that pro-
viding the Main Agent’s evaluation can accelerate the convergence
process. We first detail the theoretical foundation of our approach.
4.1
Theoretical Foundation
We explore the theoretical foundations of our approach, starting
by assuming that we are in a zero sum game, i.e., that 𝑅𝑖
𝑡= −𝑅𝑗
𝑡,
where 𝑡is the timestep, 𝑖denotes the first player and 𝑗the second.
Thus, a positive reward for one agent will result in the equivalent
negative reward for the other.
It follows that the returns of both agents also reflect this zero-
sum property, which – over a fixed horizon – we now show to be,
without loss of generality:
𝐺𝑖
𝑡=
𝑇
∑︁
𝑡=0
𝛾𝑡𝑅𝑖
𝑡= −
𝑇
∑︁
𝑡=0
𝛾𝑡𝑅𝑗
𝑡= −𝐺𝑗
𝑡,
(1)
where 𝛾is the discount factor. Given the equivalency in Equation 1,
we can rewrite 𝑄𝑖, the Q function for agent 𝑖, 𝑄: S × A →R, i.e.,
the expected sum of discounted rewards from a given state and
action, as a function of 𝑄𝑗, the Q function for agent 𝑗:
𝑄𝑖(𝑠,𝑎) = E𝜋𝑖,𝜋𝑗
𝐺𝑖
𝑡|𝑠𝑡= 𝑠,𝑎𝑡= 𝑎

= E𝜋𝑖,𝜋𝑗
𝑅𝑖
𝑡+ 𝐺𝑖
𝑡+1|𝑠𝑡= 𝑠,𝑎𝑡= 𝑎

= E𝜋𝑖,𝜋𝑗
h
𝑅𝑖
𝑡−𝐺𝑗
𝑡+1|𝑠𝑡= 𝑠,𝑎𝑡= 𝑎
i
= E𝜋𝑖,𝜋𝑗
𝑅𝑖
𝑡−𝑄𝑗(𝑠𝑡+1,𝑎𝑡+1)|𝑠𝑡= 𝑠,𝑎𝑡= 𝑎

= E𝜋𝑖,𝜋𝑗
𝑅𝑖
𝑡−𝑉𝑗(𝑠𝑡+1)|𝑠𝑡= 𝑠,𝑎𝑡= 𝑎

,
(2)
where on the last line we replace the 𝑄𝑗with𝑉𝑗, the value function
𝑉: S →R, i.e., the expected discounted rewards from a given state.
We also note that both Q and V are defined as the expectation over
both agents’ policies, 𝜋𝑖and 𝜋𝑗, where 𝜋: S →𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑡(A).
For Equation 2 to hold and be usable in practice, the opponents
value function would have to accurately represent the current pol-
icy, 𝜋𝑖. We argue, however, that this will almost never be the case
in practice. This is particularly true when training against fixed
opponents that are not able to adapt to the current agent’s strategy.
We note that this is precisely the case for Exploiter Agents that use
a fixed Main Agent to exploit. In the following sections, we explore
an alternative solution for using the opponent’s evaluation.
4.2
The Minimax Reward
In practice, since the Main Agent’s value function will be inac-
curate, we propose to use a reward function that mixes both the
environment reward and the opponent’s value function. Specifi-
cally, assuming the opponent is acting greedily with respect to its
value function, we have𝑉𝑗(𝑠𝑡+1) = max𝑎𝑄𝑗(𝑠𝑡+1,𝑎), and therefore
use the following reward, which we term the Minimax reward:
𝑅𝑖
minimax(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡) = 𝑅𝑖(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡) −𝛼𝛾(1 −𝑑) max
𝑎
𝑄𝑗(𝑠𝑡+1,𝑎),
(3)
where 𝛼∈[0, 1] is a coefficient modulating the opponent’s signal,
𝑑∈{0, 1} is the done signal, and max𝑎𝑄𝑗(𝑠𝑡+1,𝑎) is the maximum
opponent’s evaluation at the next state. We note that the choice
in 𝛼is important, since setting it too high will potentially result
in the agent focusing too much on the opponents value function,
which in our case is only an approximation.
Moreover, to reduce the potential for reward hacking via finding
a cycle of infinite positive rewards, we ensure that the additional
reward term based on the opponents value function, provided only
at non-terminal states, is at most zero. Specifically, in sparse reward
environments, the Main Agent’s value function will approximately
(barring function approximation errors), lie within the bounds of the
reward function 𝑅∈[𝑅min, 𝑅max]. In this setting, we simply shift
the additional reward of our Minimax Exploiter by −|𝑅min| such
that −𝑉𝑗(𝑠𝑡+1) −|𝑅min| ≤0, which can be seen by the following:
−𝑉𝑗(𝑠𝑡+1) ≤−𝑅min
−𝑉𝑗(𝑠𝑡+1) −|𝑅min| ≤−𝑅min −|𝑅min|
−𝑉𝑗(𝑠𝑡+1) −|𝑅min| ≤0,
(4)
where we note that when 𝑅min is negative, the right hand side of
the last equation is 0, and when it’s positive, the right hand side of
the equation will be negative.
In cases where the underlying reward function is not sparse,
or when knowledge of the minimum reward is not available, we
suggest simply tracking the minimum value, min𝑠𝑉𝑗(𝑠) while the
Main Agent was training and shift the reward negatively by that
amount.
We note that using the Minimax reward, with or without this
shift, does not theoretically guarantee that the original optimal
policy is preserved. However, this modified reward is only used on
Exploiter Agent’s, to speed up their convergence speed, and not on
the Main Agent.
Note on Reward Pairing: In standard turn-based games, the state
in 𝑠𝑡+1 from𝑉𝑗(𝑠𝑡+1) in Equation 3 is simply the next turn of the op-
ponent, however – in simultaneous games like For Honor, where
both agents act asynchronously – we simply pair state-action pairs
based on their chronological occurrence (see Figure 3). We note
that both players are not guaranteed to have the same number of
state-action pairs throughout an episode, as one player may act
multiple times before allowing its opponent to act. This is common
in, e.g., fighting games where stunning/disabling your opponent

Exploiter (s0, a0)
Exploiter (s1, a1)
Exploiter (s2, a2)
Exploiter (s3, a3)
Exploiter (s4, a4)
Exploiter (sN, aN)
Main Agent (s0, a0)
Main Agent (s1, a1)
Main Agent (s2, a2)
Main Agent (s3, a3)
Main Agent (s4, a4)
Main Agent (sM, aM)
EpisodeTime
. . .
Figure 3: For Honor Exploiter and Main Agent asynchro-
nous state-action pairings based on chronological order, as
occurred within an episode, denoted by the double red ar-
rows.
is a foundational principle of effective gameplay. In these settings,
we will have non-unique pairings of some state-action pairs.
5
EXPERIMENTS
We evaluate our approach on games of increasing complexity, start-
ing with the simple turn based games Tic-Tac-Toe and Connect
4, then Atari Boxing and finally For Honor a AAA video game.
Since the Minimax reward requires an extra network evaluation, it
would be unfair to baseline approaches to judge the training per-
formance over a fixed number of network updates or environment
steps. Therefore, all experiments are evaluated over a predeter-
mined wall-clock training time. Note that all of our benchmarks are
Deep Q-Network (DQN)[7] agents utilising a double Q-function
[16], that we simply refer to as the DQN agent. We plan on releasing
(upon acceptance) Tic-Tac-Toe, Connect 4 and modified Atari
Boxing with two player support source code for reproducibility
purposes.
5.1
Turn Based Games
We evaluate our framework on Tic-Tac-Toe and Connect 4, each
two player zero-sum turn based games. When the agent plays a
move, the environment will respond by picking the best move ac-
cording to a Minimax algorithm, which we use as our proxy to
a valuation function. For Tic-Tac-Toe, we allow the Minimax al-
gorithm to run to completion – representing the optimal policy.
For Connect 4, rather than letting the Minimax algorithm run
to completion, we limit its search depth to only three moves; this
means that the policy is effectively random, unless there is an op-
portunity to win or prevent a loss within a three move window.
The motivation here is to have a scenario where we know that our
opponent’s action evaluation is imperfect. In both these environ-
ments, the reward structure is +1 when the agent wins, −1 when
the agent loses, and 0 otherwise.
Tic-Tac-Toe Results: We train a DQN agent as well as a Mini-
max Exploiter agent against a Minimax opponent, with a Minimax
Exploiter 𝛼= 0.1. The agents train with an 𝜖-greedy exploration
of 0.01 and we evaluate performance over 30 minutes of training,
averaged over five seeds, which we illustrate in Figure 4. We train
an additional agent (also in Figure 4), which we call 𝛾-0: this agent
is a Minimax Exploiter agent with a discount factor 𝛾= 0 and a
Minimax Exploiter 𝛼= 1, effectively cloning the inverse Minimax
of the opponent as its Q-function. Note that here we are referring to
the 𝛾of the Q-learning TD update, and not the 𝛾from (3), which is
always set to the default value of 0.995. Each agent’s Q-function is
parameterized as a fully connected neural network with two hidden
layers, each with a dimension of 64.
From our training performance, we see that the Minimax Ex-
ploiter and the 𝛾-0 agent are significantly more efficient than a
DQN agent. We can expect these gains to increase as environment
complexity increases.
Connect 4 Results: Connect 4 is a slightly more complex experi-
ment, where the training setup remains the same as in Tic-Tac-Toe
except for having a Minimax Exploiter 𝛼= 0.01 and the Q-function
network parameterized with two hidden layers with dimensions of
size 512. We evaluate training over 12 hours, rather than 30 minutes,
and average over three seeds rather than five. Figure 4 illustrates
that the Minimax Exploiter continues to converge much faster than
the baseline DQN agent. Note that the 𝛾-0 agent is unable to learn
and collapses at a score of about −0.75. This example showcases
that even with an imperfect evaluation, evidenced by the poor 𝛾-0
performance, the Minimax Exploiter is still able to extract a useful
signal to boost its training performance.
5.2
Atari Boxing
We modify the Atari Boxing environment to end when one of
the two fighters reaches ten points, as opposed to the default 100,
and use the Pettingzoo library [15] to run the game in two player
mode. We first train a DQN agent against a random policy, then
train a second agent against the first one. This second agent will
serve as the environment opponent in our tests. We do this to
emulate a league training setup that is several generation in, where
bottlenecks of the Main Exploiter may become more apparent [14].
The reward function we use to train this agent remains sparse, with
a +1 when reaching ten points, −1 if the opponent reaches ten
points, and 0 otherwise.
The Atari Boxing experiments consist of training the Minimax
Exploiter with 𝛼= 0.005, a DQN agent that observed the sparse re-
ward function which we call DQN-sparse, and another DQN agent

0
5
10
15
20
25
30
wallclock time (minutes)
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
score
TicTacToe performance
Minimax Exploiter
DQN
-0
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
wallclock time (hours)
1.00
0.75
0.50
0.25
0.00
0.25
0.50
score
Connect4 performance
Minimax Exploiter
DQN
-0
Figure 4: left: Tic-Tac-Toe, right: Connect 4, training performance of the Minimax Exploiter, DQN agent, and 𝛾-0 agent,
averaged over five seeds.The Minimax Exploiter is significantly more efficient than the DQN agent in both settings, the 𝛾-0
agent is on par with the Minimax Exploiter in Tic-Tac-Toe, but unable to learn in Connect 4.
that observed the dense reward function from the environment
(i.e., which is +1 every time the agent successfully hits the oppo-
nent), which we call DQN-dense. The network sizes and exploration
hyperparameters are the same as in Connect 4, and we evaluate
training over three hours and averaged over five seeds. We note
that we used the RAM observations rather than the traditional pixel
observations.
From the results in Figure 5, we can see that adding the Mini-
max reward greatly improves performance compared to the purely
sparse reward function, and the default dense reward function from
the environment (unsurprisingly) outperforms our Minimax Ex-
ploiter. Since there is little to no downside of getting hit in Atari
Boxing, a dense reward function promoting aggressive behavior is
expected to perform very well. However, this is a special case of
simple reward engineering that leads to fast convergence, which
may not be as trivial to determine in more complex environment
[8], as we showcase in the next set of experiments on For Honor.
5.3
For Honor
Our final and most complex experiment scales and deploys a CSP-
MARL setup to For Honor, a modern AAA action combat game
with a variety of game modes. We consider the duel mode, a one-
versus-one combat that ends when one of the two fighters lose all
their health points. While the game has a variety of hero archetypes
with different play styles, for simplicity, we exclusively treat War-
dens in our training, which are melee combat knights with long
swords.
The action space of the agents consist of 36 discrete actions,
comprising directional hits, dodges, blocks, among many other
moves. The state space consists of a 160 dimensional vector, which
encodes information about each agent’s health, stamina, speed,
distance to the opponent, animation information, and other game
specific information such as the opponent’s stance. We provide the
full details of our RL interface in the supplemental material.
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
wallclock time (hours)
0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
win rate
AtariBoxing performance
Minimax Exploiter
DQN-sparse
DQN-dense
Figure 5: Atari Boxing training performance over three
hours of the Minimax Exploiter, DQN sparse agent, and DQN
dense agent, averaged over five seeds. The Minimax Exploiter
is significantly more efficient than the DQN sparse agent,
however less efficient than the DQN dense agent.
The underlying framework we use is a simplified version of the
one presented in TLeague [14], with a few modifications to fit
our settings. To reduce computation cost, we only train our league
framework with two of the three mentioned archetypes, namely the
Main Agent and Main Exploiter, omitting the League Exploiter. We
also do not use any expert data as a starting point for our models.
Finally, we define convergence for the Main Exploiter as having
a win-rate of 85% against its current frozen (non-training) Main
Agent, and convergence for the Main Agent as having a win-rate
of 85% against all agents in the opponent pool. The Main Exploiter

will only trigger a new generation if there exists a different Main
Agent to exploit (i.e., the Main Agent has converged at least once
since it last got paired with the Main Exploiter). The opponents of
our Main Agent are sampled proportionally to their win-rates, with
a 10% chance of randomly sampling any opponent in the league.
We train by running four game clients on a single machine, each
client running ten duels at double speed, leading to effectively 80
duels simultaneously running on each machine. For our experi-
ments, we only utilise a single machine to run the game clients. Of
the four running game clients, two of them generate experience to
train the Main Agent, while the other two clients generate experi-
ence to train the Main Exploiter. We run the league framework on
a compute cluster with two GPUs.
We set the environment reward of our For Honor duels to yet
another simple, sparse reward function, with a reward of +10 when
the agent wins their duel, −10 if the agent loses, and 0 otherwise.
Each agent utilizes a Deep Q-Network, with two fully connected
hidden layers of dimension 512 and an 𝜖-greedy exploration of 0.01.
We run four different league setups, with varying Main Exploiters.
The first Main Exploiter observes the sparse reward function, which
we call the Vanilla Exploiter. The second is our Minimax Exploiter
with 𝛼= 0.01. Finally, we add two additional exploiters with custom
dense reward functions: the first providing a positive reward each
time the agent hits their opponent – which we call the Aggressive
Exploiter – and the second providing a negative reward each time
the agent gets hit from their opponent – which we call the Defensive
Exploiter. Note that all the Main Agents observe the same sparse
reward function, regardless of which type of Main Exploiter they
are training against.
The first generation of the Main Agent is initialized to a model
that has trained to convergence (≥85% win-rate) against the
scripted AI that exist in the game, while the Main Exploiters start
from a random initialization. After each generation, the Main Agent
retains its current network, while the Main Exploiter does not.
We first evaluate the number of converged exploiters within a
24 hour training period over three seeds. Figure 6 shows the results
for all four exploiters. We show the results of a longer training
session of the Minimax Exploiter and the Vanilla Exploiter for over
100 hours in Figure 7. The lower opacity bars in the graphs corre-
spond to the time spent by the Exploiter at convergence. Consistent
with previous experiments, we find that the Minimax Exploiter
converges faster than the Vanilla Exploiter, and so – given the same
amount of training time – our system running the Minimax Ex-
ploiter can generate more exploiters (counter strategies) into the
league.
Finally, we compare the resulting Main Agents generated by the
system trained with all four different exploiters, according to their
best seed. Each one of them is paired against the other (totalling six
pairings) and evaluated over 1000 duels. We show in Table 1 that
the Main Agent resulting from the Minimax Exploiter experiment
is the most robust, achieving a win-rate above 66% against all other
Main Agents.
6
DISCUSSION
In this paper, we proposed the Minimax Exploiter, a simple to im-
plement change to the league framework that can provide large
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
Minimax vs Vanilla Exploiter generations over 24 hours
Minimax Exploiter
Vanilla Exploiter
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
wallclock time (hours)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
generations
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
best seed
median seed
worst seed
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
Defensive vs Aggressive Exploiter generations over 24 hours
Defensive Exploiter
Aggressive Exploiter
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
wallclock time (hours)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
generations
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
best seed
median seed
worst seed
Figure 6: Minimax vs Vanilla vs Defensive vs Aggressive Ex-
ploiter Performance over 24 hours in For Honor with three
different seeds. The Minimax Exploiter performs the best
with 11 converged generations at each seed. Both the De-
fensive and Aggressive Exploiters outperform the Vanilla
exploiters with 9 converged generations at their best seed.
improvement to training efficiency in certain settings. We argue
that the current state of CSP-MARL can be too computationally
expensive and time intensive to be run in iterative workflows that
require near-constant model retraining, such as video game produc-
tions. We showed across several environments, including simple

Table 1: Win rates of the best final Main Agents generated by all four different Exploiters, averaged over 1000 duels against each
other. The Minimax Main Agent (bold font) is able to beat all other Main Agents, with its best win-rate being 80.26% against the
Vanilla Main Agent, and its worse win-rate being 66.25% against the Aggressive Main Agent.
Vanilla
Minimax
Defensive
Aggressive
Vanilla
–
19.74%
66.86%
24.39%
Minimax
80.26%
–
70.31%
66.25%
Defensive
33.14%
29.69%
–
20.93%
Aggressive
75.61%
33.75%
79.07%
–
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
generations
0
4
8
12
16
20
24
28
32
36
wallclock time (hours)
Minimax vs Vanilla Exploiter generations over 100 hours
Minimax Exploiter
Vanilla Exploiter
Figure 7: Minimax vs Vanilla Exploiter Performance over
100 hours in For Honor. The Minimax Exploiter is able to
generate 16 converged Exploiters, while the Vanilla Exploiter
only generated 13 converged Exploiters.
turn-based games, Atari, and a modern AAA video game, that the
Minimax Exploiter can achieve gains in overall run-time efficiency.
In simple environments we found that simple reward shaping per-
formed well, whereas in a complicated environment like For Honor,
we found that the Minimax Exploiter generated much more robust
Main Agents (compared to the vanilla, defensive, and aggressive
exploiters) in equal amount of training time. As next steps, we plan
to further explore the uses of the Minimax Exploiter in asymmetric
games. In fact, many games, including For Honor, can be seen as
an asymmetric game as there may be a variety of different classes
to play as. We hypothesize that the Minimax Exploiter lends itself
perfectly to these asymmetric scenarios, as even though the state
and action spaces may differ, the evaluation function of the oppo-
nent that we proposed in this paper can still be used as a reward
for an asymmetric agent. We hope that the flexibility and increased
efficiency of our approach makes it more appealing for AAA game
productions to run CSP-MARL for their use-cases.
REFERENCES
[1] Trapit Bansal, Jakub Pachocki, Szymon Sidor, Ilya Sutskever, and Igor Mordatch.
2017. Emergent Complexity via Multi-Agent Competition. CoRR abs/1710.03748
(2017). arXiv:1710.03748 http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.03748
[2] Christopher Berner, Greg Brockman, Brooke Chan, Vicki Cheung, Przemys-
law Debiak, Christy Dennison, David Farhi, Quirin Fischer, Shariq Hashme,
Christopher Hesse, Rafal Józefowicz, Scott Gray, Catherine Olsson, Jakub Pa-
chocki, Michael Petrov, Henrique Pondé de Oliveira Pinto, Jonathan Raiman,
Tim Salimans, Jeremy Schlatter, Jonas Schneider, Szymon Sidor, Ilya Sutskever,
Jie Tang, Filip Wolski, and Susan Zhang. 2019.
Dota 2 with Large Scale
Deep Reinforcement Learning. CoRR abs/1912.06680 (2019). arXiv:1912.06680
http://arxiv.org/abs/1912.06680
[3] Greg Brockman, Vicki Cheung, Ludwig Pettersson, Jonas Schneider, John Schul-
man, Jie Tang, and Wojciech Zaremba. 2016. OpenAI Gym. CoRR abs/1606.01540
(2016). arXiv:1606.01540 http://arxiv.org/abs/1606.01540
[4] A.E. Elo. 1966. The USCF Rating System: Its Development, Theory, and Applications.
United States Chess Federation.
[5] Lei Han, Jiechao Xiong, Peng Sun, Xinghai Sun, Meng Fang, Qingwei Guo, Qiaobo
Chen, Tengfei Shi, Hongsheng Yu, Xipeng Wu, and Zhengyou Zhang. 2020.
TStarBot-X: An Open-Sourced and Comprehensive Study for Efficient League
Training in StarCraft II Full Game. https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2011.13729
[6] Daniel Hennes, Dustin Morrill, Shayegan Omidshafiei, Rémi Munos, Julien Per-
olat, Marc Lanctot, Audrunas Gruslys, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Paavo Parmas,
Edgar Duèñez Guzmán, and Karl Tuyls. 2020. Neural Replicator Dynamics:
Multiagent Learning via Hedging Policy Gradients. In Proceedings of the 19th In-
ternational Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems (Auckland,
New Zealand) (AAMAS ’20). International Foundation for Autonomous Agents
and Multiagent Systems, Richland, SC, 492–501.
[7] Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Alex Graves, Ioannis
Antonoglou, Daan Wierstra, and Martin Riedmiller. 2013. Playing Atari with
Deep Reinforcement Learning. https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.1312.5602
[8] Andrew Y. Ng, Daishi Harada, and Stuart J. Russell. 1999. Policy Invariance
Under Reward Transformations: Theory and Application to Reward Shaping. In
Proceedings of the Sixteenth International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML
1999). Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, CA, USA, 278–287.
http://robotics.
stanford.edu/~ang/papers/shaping-icml99.ps
[9] Julien Pérolat, Rémi Munos, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Shayegan Omidshafiei, Mark
Rowland, Pedro A. Ortega, Neil Burch, Thomas W. Anthony, David Balduzzi,
Bart De Vylder, Georgios Piliouras, Marc Lanctot, and Karl Tuyls. 2020. From
Poincaré Recurrence to Convergence in Imperfect Information Games: Finding
Equilibrium via Regularization. CoRR abs/2002.08456 (2020). arXiv:2002.08456
https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.08456
[10] Julien Perolat, Bart De Vylder, Daniel Hennes, Eugene Tarassov, Florian Strub,
Vincent de Boer, Paul Muller, Jerome T. Connor, Neil Burch, Thomas Anthony,
Stephen McAleer, Romuald Elie, Sarah H. Cen, Zhe Wang, Audrunas Gruslys,
Aleksandra Malysheva, Mina Khan, Sherjil Ozair, Finbarr Timbers, Toby Pohlen,
Tom Eccles, Mark Rowland, Marc Lanctot, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Bilal Piot,
Shayegan Omidshafiei, Edward Lockhart, Laurent Sifre, Nathalie Beauguerlange,
Remi Munos, David Silver, Satinder Singh, Demis Hassabis, and Karl Tuyls.
2022. Mastering the game of Stratego with model-free multiagent reinforcement
learning. Science 378, 6623 (dec 2022), 990–996. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.
add4679
[11] Alessandro Sestini, Joakim Bergdahl, Konrad Tollmar, Andrew D. Bagdanov, and
Linus Gisslén. 2022. Towards Informed Design and Validation Assistance in
Computer Games Using Imitation Learning.
https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.
2208.07811
[12] David Silver, Thomas Hubert, Julian Schrittwieser, Ioannis Antonoglou, Matthew
Lai, Arthur Guez, Marc Lanctot, Laurent Sifre, Dharshan Kumaran, Thore Graepel,
Timothy P. Lillicrap, Karen Simonyan, and Demis Hassabis. 2017. Mastering
Chess and Shogi by Self-Play with a General Reinforcement Learning Algorithm.
CoRR abs/1712.01815 (2017). arXiv:1712.01815 http://arxiv.org/abs/1712.01815

[13] David Silver, Julian Schrittwieser, Karen Simonyan, Ioannis Antonoglou, Aja
Huang, Arthur Guez, Thomas Hubert, Lucas Baker, Matthew Lai, Adrian Bolton,
Yutian Chen, Timothy Lillicrap, Fan Hui, Laurent Sifre, George van den Driessche,
Thore Graepel, and Demis Hassabis. 2017. Mastering the game of Go without
human knowledge. Nature 550, 7676 (01 Oct 2017), 354–359. https://doi.org/10.
1038/nature24270
[14] Peng Sun, Jiechao Xiong, Lei Han, Xinghai Sun, Shuxing Li, Jiawei Xu, Meng Fang,
and Zhengyou Zhang. 2020. TLeague: A Framework for Competitive Self-Play
based Distributed Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning. CoRR abs/2011.12895
(2020). arXiv:2011.12895 https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.12895
[15] J. K Terry, Benjamin Black, Nathaniel Grammel, Mario Jayakumar, Ananth
Hari, Ryan Sulivan, Luis Santos, Rodrigo Perez, Caroline Horsch, Clemens Di-
effendahl, Niall L Williams, Yashas Lokesh, Ryan Sullivan, and Praveen Ravi.
2020. PettingZoo: Gym for Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2009.14471 (2020).
[16] Hado van Hasselt, Arthur Guez, and David Silver. 2015. Deep Reinforcement
Learning with Double Q-learning. https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.1509.06461
[17] Oriol Vinyals, Igor Babuschkin, Wojciech M Czarnecki, Michaël Mathieu, An-
drew Dudzik, Junyoung Chung, David H Choi, Richard Powell, Timo Ewalds,
Petko Georgiev, Junhyuk Oh, Dan Horgan, Manuel Kroiss, Ivo Danihelka, Aja
Huang, Laurent Sifre, Trevor Cai, John P Agapiou, Max Jaderberg, Alexander S
Vezhnevets, Rémi Leblond, Tobias Pohlen, Valentin Dalibard, David Budden,
Yury Sulsky, James Molloy, Tom L Paine, Caglar Gulcehre, Ziyu Wang, Tobias
Pfaff, Yuhuai Wu, Roman Ring, Dani Yogatama, Dario Wünsch, Katrina McKin-
ney, Oliver Smith, Tom Schaul, Timothy Lillicrap, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Demis
Hassabis, Chris Apps, and David Silver. 2019. Grandmaster level in StarCraft
II using multi-agent reinforcement learning. Nature 575, 7782 (2019), 350–354.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1724-z
[18] Peter Wurman, Samuel Barrett, Kenta Kawamoto, James MacGlashan, Kaushik
Subramanian, Thomas Walsh, Roberto Capobianco, Alisa Devlic, Franziska Eckert,
Florian Fuchs, Leilani Gilpin, Piyush Khandelwal, Varun Kompella, HaoChih
Lin, Patrick MacAlpine, Declan Oller, Takuma Seno, Craig Sherstan, Michael
Thomure, and Hiroaki Kitano. 2022. Outracing champion Gran Turismo drivers
with deep reinforcement learning. Nature 602 (02 2022), 223–228. https://doi.
org/10.1038/s41586-021-04357-7

A
FOR HONOR RL INTERFACE
We provide more details into the For Honor RL interface. The For Honor RL state consists of a 160 dimensional vector, broken down
according to the following sub-vectors:
• Agent Information: 60 dimensions.
– Animation Information: 52 dimensions.
– Health: 1 dimension.
– Stamina: 1 dimension.
– Out of Stamina: 1 dimension.
– Stance: 5 dimensions.
• Opponent Information: 60 dimensions.
– Animation Information: 52 dimensions.
– Health: 1 dimension.
– Stamina: 1 dimension.
– Out of Stamina: 1 dimension.
– Stance: 5 dimensions.
• Target Distance: 1 dimension.
• Speed: 2 dimensions.
• Can Parry: 1 dimension.
• Action Mask: 36 dimensions.
We query the RL agent for a decision every 100 milliseconds. Note, however, that this does not mean that the agent acts every 100
milliseconds but, rather, that they have an opportunity to input a decision within these timed windows. If the agent is in the middle of an
animation/action-sequence, whether it be performing an attack or being the victim of an attack, then our query is rejected and the agent will
only have another opportunity to act at the next query (i.e., provided it is free of any of the aforementioned ongoing prohibitive animations).
The RL agent is always operating on what is referred to as the “lock” mode, meaning it is always facing its opponent. While the agent has
access to a variety of fighting moves, it cannot explicitly control its own movement, with the exception of a few actions – called “dodges” –
which quickly displace the agent along a certain direction. The action space consists of 36 discrete actions (specifically for the Warden game
player archetype), broken down into the following categories:
• Warden Specific Actions: 23 actions.
– {Left, Right, Top} × {Light Attack, Heavy Attack} : 6 actions.
– {Special Move} × {1 −→17}: 17 actions.
• Generic Actions: 13 actions.
– {Parry, Stance} × {Left, Right, Up} : 6 actions.
– {Dodge} × {Left, Right, Front, Back}: 4 actions.
– NoOp (do nothing).
– Feint.
– Guard Break.
